there are seven animals that can only be
found in Australia and we're seeing them
all today first up we have the drop bear
then we have the wombat God chassis
devil these guys remind me of stuffies
they're so cute everyone thinks they're
psycho but they're adorable okay then we
have some mini kangaroos a quokka oh and
there's an Echidna there and there was a
platypus in here somewhere then I had to
bring my child to the Capybaras you
would think at 20 years old she would be
more mature but no she's acting like a
little kid so excited to see these
Capybaras and look there's an Australian
icon with the capybara it's a bin
chicken we love these birds I think some
Asians have tried to eat these things
because apparently they taste like
chicken but not me I swear then we said
bye and we got ready for our private
cruise on this water taxi this is so
random but we had the entire boat to
ourselves because it was raining and
luckily I had some ponchos left over
from Disneyland and then all of a sudden
thousands of drones fly up in the air
it's like something from the future and
they start forming pictures in the sky
the first one is a whale are you kidding
me there's some planets a shooting star
and then the world and you can see
Australia

come with us to the premere of the new
mang Girls movie so the dress code was
wear pink but I'm literally the only one
who missed the memo but it doesn't look
good on me anyway so many people are
really not happy about the new Ming
Girls movie but I feel like if I tell
you why then it would be a huge spoiler
it's not often movie trailers leave out
a huge part of I guess the theme of the
movie but this one did and so many
people hated the movie because of it so
we've seen the original and loved it and
we're one of the few people that
actually loved the Remake too but I kind
of feel like the first and second movie
have different audiences in mind for
this one big reason let me know if you
guys know what it is or if you want me
to spoil it and tell you why everyone
heading but we really loved it because
we really LED

I feel like I would look so sexy
pregnant
[Music]

feel like I'm wasting
time Miss feel I second

here's another realistic morning in my
life as a work from home mom with a
toddler
today is day two of Deacon going to his
new part-time babysitter but he woke up
pretty grumpy
his first molar finally cut through but
he's got three more coming in at the
same time
I also just found out he's dealing with
an ear infection on top of the teething
so he's dealing with all of that pain
and no way to communicate with me but
Deacon tends to express his strongest
emotions when he's with me so he doesn't
really act the same way when he's with
someone else
[Music]
hello
but I still can't help but think that
he'll be difficult for someone else and
they'll just think that he's a difficult
child but I know that's just my mom
guilt trying to take over my brain you
can just cry when I hand him over to the
babysitters now I'm gonna make myself
coffee and try to make myself feel a
little better and get started with work
[Music]
I absolutely loved her first babysitter
so this is just a big adjustment for
both of us I made myself a much needed
coffee and got started on my work day

[Music]
foreign
[Music]

can you believe my first ever concert
was yoongi's concert so my mom spent so
much time thinking about this poster she
was brainstorming she was creating we
even went to Michael's to buy the
supplies for this poster I'm telling you
guys she literally put her Blood Sweat
and Tears into this like she literally
cut and glued everything because she
wanted it very handmade for yoongi sir
was also able to score some merch's
Hoodie was 110 can you believe that
that's crazy people are giving us like
free little monkey goodies and I was
like is this a normal concert thing
where people just give out free stuff I
got really hungry about these notches
and these two drinks not just itself was
like twenty dollars and the drink itself
for fifty dollars
and even gave us a potential trigger
one's energy was insane listen to this
[Applause]
I'm just gonna let you listen to his
performance I was literally screaming my
throat out
look at a smile I was so happy I
couldn't even believe I was here guys
like seriously tears were rolling and
then the posters were showcased and my
mom's was not showcased and she was
really sad guys like I'm not kidding she
was so selfish yeah it's just like
joking here but like my mom's seeing her
heart out like that she loved it

modeling in Japan versus Europe or
America what's the difference you might
know me as the Swedish guy who run of
its Japanese but my real job is actually
fashion modeling and I did so for many
years in Europe and uh before my
modeling agency in Japan brought me here
there are so many differences between
modeling in Japan versus in Europe or
the US in Japan for example you have a
manager who picks you up and drives you
to all of your tests so you're basically
just gotta show up in good condition and
the manager does the talking for you
something I was really surprised about
when I first started coming to Japan
working was that I several times a month
was casted as a groom getting married
for a living which felt weird in the
beginning because my parents back home
in Sweden were never married in the
first place on these wedding shoots we
basically simulate a full-on wedding
with up to 50 people on set at the same
time including guests musicians a priest
and our parents Japanese people spend on
average 22 000 on their weddings I just
made a vlog about one day as a wedding
model in Japan these jobs are a lot of
fun so please check it out

do you ever just wake up in the morning
look over at your partner and they're
not there because they're a responsible
human being who's left an hour before
you even wake up which is honestly rude
because he should have called in sick
today because I'm sick today so he could
help me and for the people that I know
didn't catch that it was a joke because
we already know in our souls that moms
can do it all like truthfully tell me
the difference between a mom and a sick
mom trick question because their routine
is exactly the same they're just doing
everything while being sick like I'm not
missing any steps in this routine even
though I feel like crap gray still
picked out her own outfit we ate
breakfast got her to school on time but
today is day three of me being sick so I
am on the up and up I'm also gonna get
ready for the day which I honestly did
not do on day one of being sick and I'm
not really sure what the science is
behind like getting ready and making you
feel better but it's so true like at the
very beginning of my day I was probably
at a 20 whereas after putting on my
makeup getting my bed ready my bed ready
making my bed I'm at like a 55 maybe
pushing even six but I need to make a
stop at Trader Joe's because this is a
mom hack like when you say you don't
want to cook for the night you just
throw one of these in your pan and it's
done for the day and this is what I mean
the epitome of everything still gets
done

foreign
oh
foreign

I have brown skin I'm half Filipino and
I thought because of this I would never
have to worry about skin cancer well
today everything changed okay so this is
what happened I woke up so sick I know I
don't look it but I've got a whole heap
of makeup on and I had to go on live TV
did you guys see us the whole time I was
trying to be happy and healthy but
inside I was struggling but you know
what that actually turned out to be a
blessing in disguise so after the
interview I went home and Tisha took me
to the doctors so he basically tells me
I got a cold and it'll be gone in a few
days and then he's like but I'm a skin
doctor do you have any skin issues and
I'm like actually this Freckle on my eye
what the hell is it and oh yeah I did
that test as well anyways they did a
skin test and found a mole on my spine
that didn't look good so they're taking
it out tomorrow and I'm kind of scared
you guys but I'll keep you updated also
this is a money tree it's the easiest
plan to grow and if you plan outside
your house you'll attract good things to
you and then I fell asleep literally had
like a three hour nap and then I woke up
and guys Deja was doing her homework and
she was literally asking chat gbt for
all the answers but I had no energy to
help her

currently 8 am and I have seven hours of
lecture today so I'm gonna bring you
along with me my bed is so comfortable I
don't want to leave
shower anime
and I mainly like the Starbucks one if
you follow these measurements it's so
good anyways if you're new here my name
is Liz and I'm a senior at Cornell
University right now my major is
information science which is literally
the coolest major ever so I first got
into Tech when I was in Middle School I
was randomly thrown in a class called
cyberpatriot which was basically this
cyber security competition but they had
a designated class for it even though I
didn't know what it was I decided I was
going to give it a shot and just see
what it was like it ended up being my
favorite class and I met some of my
bestest friends who I'm literally still
friends with now I just finished my hair
and makeup I'm gonna choose an outfit
now
okay here's the outfit we're going with
today I like the subtle elements of
green of course my camera because I
don't go anywhere without it in my
notion tote bag because it's my favorite
okay so I'm currently on my way to my
first class here's a little glimpse of
what campus is looking like after our
snow day my first class is called app
designer prototyping this is one of the
last classes I need to actually complete
my major and it's actually super

we're gonna have ankush coming in a
while who's gonna do my makeup today
you're supposed to be encouraging me
i just love this he's killed it with the
look
oh damn i really like it we is it a
magic act we don't wish
this is
unbelievable
[Music]
we just finished the show rest for a
while back leave momo's name will total
how do you feel
um

threw our daughter a big sweet 16
birthday party she's never had a big
party like this before so we wanted to
go all out and celebrate this Milestone
the theme was pink and she wanted it to
be a night where all her closest friends
and family came together to celebrate
she got to meet with a party planner for
the first time which was so fun to see
the ballroom was covered with pink
balloons and pink flowers throughout
instead of formal tables we did a lounge
area for the teens and a snack shop was
set up with Jaden's favorite snacks that
were personalized with her name this is
also where we sung happy birthday to her
and she blew out her Candles there was a
photo booth for printed photos and in
and out was delivered for late night
snacks everyone ate and danced
especially my friend Heather she was
reliving her High School dance days
poppy also had so much fun dancing Jaden
had the best time and was so thankful
for everything full video on my YouTube
channel

I planned my entire wedding in six weeks
do I highly recommend planning in this
short amount of time no buy here the
hacks the house one word balloons
balloons Over Flowers every single time
first of all they're cheaper and they
just fill up the room a lot better
second is neon signs because they add
just such an easy backdrop and if you
can't buy one rent one like we did
ladies and gentlemen LED candles get a
lot of them okay but this bouncy house
was like the biggest hit with all of the
kids at our wedding and We snuck in
there and got a few photos too okay your
Venue is key we went with this specific
venue because it already came with
chairs tables all of that but it was
pretty enough that we didn't have to
dress it up a ton and it came with the
cutest brides and yes I did order my
wedding cake from Target which was 20 it
did end up looking like a Valentine's
cake until my best friend fixed it so it
was all good and because I was planning
in such a short amount of time I forgot
my sparklers so this was our send-off
kind of lame but it was fine

we filmed over 860 YouTube videos while
traveling the world so here's a little
behind the scenes look at the making of
this week's video we got to the train
station an entire hour early just to
make sure we had enough time to film our
entry Now's the Time I usually make fun
of Nate's filming face he can't help it
but you can thank him for these smooth
shots of this winter wonder we were in
the middle of filming a little lunch
scene when Nate stopped his entire
sandwich in his mouth and literally took
off running to get the Drone because the
train randomly stopped in this cute
Village three hours later we arrived at
the world's largest isotope they saw our
camera and gave us these press passes
which is kind of cool most people can
probably tour the entire Ice Hotel in
about 30 minutes it took us three hours
because we filmed every detail how cool
is this place after putting warmers on
my frozen feet we rewarded our hard work
with drinks in these cups made of ice
and went down the Frozen this is our
home for the night naturally Nate set up
the camera because he's the best and I'm
cool so I'm just chilling in my warm
cocoon but we weren't in there for long
Nate once again sacrificed his Frozen
hands to get the perfect video of the
Northern Lights now go watch this full
episode on our Channel see you tomorrow

I'm going to be showing you the most
realistic Day Ever So my school starts
at 5 30 I woke up at 5 and I said just
five more minutes and you guessed it I
slept for two more hours I woke up happy
and that was very alarming why would
Lala be happy at 505 am so I went to
check my phone and you guessed it the
time was I'm late to school
this is me rethinking if I should go
back to sleep or school that's cool I
mean this is me brushing my teeth and
sleeping I wanted to wear these block
pants but they were too dirty but I
literally could care less so I wore them
went to the sink and washed it with my
hand but uh it's gone magic now I'm
deciding which shirt I should wear I
literally like tried 20 shirts on and in
the end I went back to the first one
that I tried of course now we have to
drive 40 minutes to get to my school
wheel drive now a 20-minute walk to my
class
we're canceled today I got what for no
reason

foreign
[Music]
Japan knife factor it's what I gotta
wear to work
okay let's get started
first we got a wild Sunday night
together now that it's well lived
together how did you do that
freaky and hardened the knives
straighten
add the handle buff sharp and polish and
test the blade I freaking killed that
durability desk
indestructible tough day at the factory
For Better or For Worse we bought a 50
banana food like that you get ripped off
sucks

come with me to pick up my six-year-old
after having a rough week at school now
normally on Fridays I bring her a gas
station tree because that's what my mom
always did when we were growing up but
after the week she's had which I will
not get into I knew this girl needed
something more yeah she asked me to take
a video of her being a manager we got
her a drink we got her a pretzel extra
salted of course and her move was
already shifting we did a little window
shopping we sampled like everything
because that's what me and my friends
did Growing I'm not even sure why it's
so much fun because you come out
smelling like a perfume bottle and this
just proves it does not take much to
lift somebody up

hello everybody and welcome to a study
Vlog I had completely forgotten his lock
upload karna so this is a quite old Vlog
of the last month probably I was
studying Community medicine because my
ward leave was just in two or three days
and I had this amazing Podi idli which
was very very good I had it for the very
first time
I sat for another three four hour
session and I make sure that I keep
myself hydrated throughout
I took a shower again and I did some
night skin care and I again started to
study and dinner Kia and yeah that's
about it I hope you enjoyed this one and
I'll see you in the next one bye

is
[Music]
so scary
[Music]

[Music]
so

first day of University after three
months of holiday it was kind of hard to
wake up today but I got ready and did my
makeup my eyeliner is not eyelining
today I think I put
them the reason why I wanted to film a
mini Vlog instead of a full YouTube
video is because I only have one class a
day and I can't even film in that one
don't worry I'll Vlog when classes start
I had breakfast reply to your comments
and headed out the door I have Cam lab
today and for chemistry lab sessions we
need to read the laboratory notes that
they give us so we aren't clueless when
doing experiments so here I was printing
it out and screwing through it's finally
coffee time
nothing is better than Melbourne coffee
then I met rain for lunch and of course
she gets all my best angles
you've seen her in my Vlogs before and
finally it's class time here I am
looking 10 times cooler in a lab coat
you're seeing illegal footage right here
okay I'm not allowed to film inside I
make new friends hilarious and that is
my

I got my hair done at 8am and then I
drove down to Forum Shops which is
inside Caesar's Palace I had to meet our
team down there because we're doing a
special video shoot today I got there
first so I went inside and it looks like
a complete disaster in there but we
managed to shoot a video somehow and
we're announcing our opening date
tomorrow Tuesdays are usually always an
office day but I wanted to drink first
so I stopped by Cafe Lola in Summerlin I
was just going to order my drink and
head to the office but they needed some
help so I jumped in the back I helped on
the bar for a little bit and made a
bunch of fun cocktails which I love
making and then a customer asked for a
caramel latte but I asked them if they
wanted to try our new summer drink
coming out which is the dulce de leche
it is a caramel latte but it's made with
Mexican caramel and cinnamon and it's
delicious another customer ordered this
and it looked so good it was our soup
and sammy with avocado in it after they
got caught up I headed over to the
office and I forgot my latte after the
office I picked up sofa from school and
now it's gymnastics time

[Music]
let them know

foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
[Music]
oh boy
thank you helper
foreign

[Music]
it's all right
[Music]
thank you
oh my God
the information robot this thing is
crazy
[Music]
this thing's smacked
it's really odd I got the long fries I'm
stuck in some Shake Shack I have a
better batting average than this guy
[Applause]
[Music]

why does everyone hate Planet Fitness
today I woke up got ready and got to
work coaching my clients I was super
happy seeing that one of my clients
officially was 10 pounds down which was
a goal of hers for a really long time
and after we both celebrated that big
milestone I started getting hungry so
when I finished my calls I went to go
make some pasta but I thought it'd be
cool to do an IG live since I haven't
done one in a while so I did one and it
was still getting to chat with all y'all
while meal prepping two days worth of
ground beef penne pasta and it was gas
ask you guys on the live to check how
much protein and calories were in my
food for me online but Samuel just kept
giving me wrong numbers 69 grams yeah
y'all think you're so funny huh and I
got a text from my girl saying that she
ended work early so I decided to go work
out with her but that meant that I had
to go to Planet Fitness which I always
heard bad things about for some weird
reason I don't know why people say this
because I honestly have one of the best
upper body workouts there the machines
are genuinely really nice and some you
can't even find at normal gyms like this
back road that aligns so well with
targeting your lats it was pretty empty
but Loki a little too quiet but
definitely I'm gonna be going back and I
headed home drafted my content for
tomorrow and played some 2K with a
friend before knocking out

[Music]
right baby
[Music]

that's huge
we're at the company noodles Museum okay
[Music]
[Applause]
Japanese barbecue for lunch
[Music]
[Applause]
Japanese KFC it's almost like beer
batter
because
[Applause]
[Music]
we're watching them prepare them no
poison no poisoning
[Music]
don't do that sit up if you ever want to
feel bad about yourself those are the
testicles

rating things from an Australian
Supermarket that doesn't make much sense
to me starting off strong with a chicken
and ham spread now how do I word this um
I did not like it it was very intense
you have to have an acquired taste for
this bad boy because I'm giving this a 4
out of ten no three out of ten now on to
ham cheese and hundreds and thousands
cookie I thought you were meant to add
these together and eat it as like one
snack do not do that eat it separately
because I did this I'm gonna give this a
two out of ten I swear this is just a
marketing thing because it did not taste
like the meatballs although it did taste
really yummy these chips were good um
don't eat them on a date though because
my breath afterwards was not nice seven
out of ten now if you're actually a fan
of cheekies I'm sus on you these are
actually rank like a chocolate Lolly
like not a fan three out of ten okay
look I threw this one in here this does
make sense it's akin to surprise I love
them but I wanted to see what the toys
are like these days so I opened it up
and I put it together and look at it it
squirts water it was really hard to get
the water out of him but it was cute 10
out of 10. Vegemite and cheese spread
look this wasn't too bad but I would
prefer veggie my

Crimson sick at home and her tummy hurts
and she's just watching the prices right
with Dad you want to get creamy a little
care package
mommy coffee yeah
[Music]
yeah
what do you think of the rain
chance I can't take a right
[Music]
croissant there's a fly in that one
and chocolate you've got chocolate okay
[Music]
been doubling up on a lot of goodies is
this you and creamy let me get her a
little balloon which one do you like
[Music]
that's a great signature
[Music]

do you eat lamb I don't eat old sheep
but I love eating baby sheep it's so
delicious apparently Americans don't
like lamb and I find this really hard to
believe like why don't you guys like it
anyways Deja wanted to cook some lamb
tonight so I went out and got it and
we're only doing a small shop because
we're leaving for Perth soon Deja and I
are going shopping today for our
basically besties outfits we're thinking
we're going to wear pink at each show
but guys can I be honest with you I'm
starting to freak out like I'm gonna be
on stage in front of thousands of you
does anyone else have a fear of public
speaking like my two main fears are
flying and public speaking and I'm going
to be doing both of those over the next
two weeks and then I opened some
packages that I got from you guys I got
some cleansing products some new Crocs I
didn't know they had thongs and I got
some workout gear oh and I got some of
that new mascara from Fenty and look how
fancy this packaging is there's a little
mirror
and then Deja gave me a dinky to the
beach she wanted to watch the sunset
before we started cooking dinner anyways
we raced back home and we started
cooking our lamb chops we seasoned the
lamb and then you just put it on a hot
pan for like five to ten minutes and you
have the best

Ginny called me up this morning and
she's like hey come to the city for
lunch I literally had 10 minutes to get
ready and I chucked on whatever like
that is why my outfit is so fat also my
freckles come out a little bit more in
the summer season anyway so I get to the
city engineer was like oh girl you miss
you missed the dress code memo we're
meant to be going out for this cute
little girl's day lunch and I look like
this and I've got a wrinkly shirt on but
it's all good normally Jenny and I don't
eat Italian food like we love it but we
it's not like our go-to and it was so
yummy today but we got so bloated
afterwards like our stomach like was
actually hurting maybe we're like gluten
intolerant nah Let's Pretend We're not I
literally think I'm so funny every time
the camera comes out and I do something
weird yeah let's not talk about it but
no it's actually such a good day we're
just the two girls in the city we went
to an art gallery why am I standing like
a dad we then made our separate ways and
I went back home for a little bit of
context I live over an hour away from
the city so I caught a train home and
then I got to the beach and I jumped in
with my clothes on because why not I'm
really procrastinating because I do have
to go back home and work so yeah that
was my day

light dinner for me
smoothie time
perfect
[Music]
it's not ripe yet
Hokkaido corn ice cream you gotta try it
tastes like corn
[Music]
we're going to the world's largest
revolving sushi place
yeah
this wagyu is literally 20 US Dollars
this would cost 250 in the US
[Music]

this is my best friend Ginny and yes
most of the time we do look like this
today we were invited into an event from
Netflix and we do not have a nice dress
so we had to go shopping and we bought
these dresses we look like we're going
to a prom in like High School Musical
also can you tell that we're complete
opposites like Jenny is like the black
cat I'm the golden retriever it is a
Vibe anyway we made our way into the
Uber and we are here to watch the new
season of Bridgeton we walk in and
there's a quartet guys I didn't even
know what a quartet was before today and
they were incredible and then we had
some Bubbles and the photographer tried
to make me read I haven't read a book
since year seven everything was so
pretty here though but we made our way
to the fruit table and then we grabbed a
plate of food and we made our way to the
stairwell so we can have a little bit of
a nibble and then Jenny pushed me and
she's like go say hi to the boys so I
said Hi and then we started running yeah
I don't know what that was and then we
sat down and we brought some food in
stopped that's so embarrassing and it
was just about to begin and listen to
this oh
[Music]
[Laughter]
you're being louder

many blocked the team ended Saturday
morning initially with some morning in
the
chairs
opinions
and that's for the mini Vlog bye

Swing
Swing Swing the spinning Stu you wear
those shoes and I well wear that dress
oh Kiss
Me Baby

my husband asked if he could get my
daughter Grace ready for school today
and that was literally the cutest
request ever so of course I said yes
he's already been the best girl dad ever
since he came into Grace's life at six
months but this is totally out of his
realm because we're normally ready by
the time he comes over but now that he
lives with us he wants to like be better
at it he did ask for my help and I told
him matching sets every single time like
they're the easiest most mindless outfit
ever next up was Hera and he was like
how do you do a ponytail and I was like
I don't know how to teach someone how to
do a pony then we just ended up going
with the bugs his face just watching and
being so patient with both of us we went
ahead and slapped a beanie on that hair
too it was a messy bun and beanie we're
being Devin's first time doing it like
he did so good

this pan is one Linda line tall
ER
[Music]
everything's freezing my teeth we're
going through something called Stand Up
Sushi anything special about it you have
to stand while you read it
that was fantastic
gosh he's fast
it's better than neck
[Music]
beautiful
[Music]
ramen restaurant
Maybe
[Music]

I never wanted to have Deja I met
Jonathan when teach was two years old
and I told him I didn't want to have any
more kids and if he wanted kids he
should find someone else then five years
into our relationship I thought to
myself tisha's gonna be 20 and I'll
still be young and she'll probably have
her own life and I won't have a many
friends so I changed my mind and three
weeks later I was pregnant with Deja and
look my plan worked I still have a mini
bestie and I'm flying to Sydney this
week for a little family holiday to see
Vivid we're staying at this fancy hotel
while we're here but Deja doesn't care
how fancy it is she still has her dogs
out and look we can see the opera house
and the Story Bridge from our room do
you unpack your suitcase when you go to
a hotel I never do but we're here for
five days well I am Deja and Jonathan
are only here for three days and I can't
wait to show you everything we're doing
one thing we plan on doing is eating at
a lot of nice places oh my God Deja
thought that was a marshmallow but it's
a napkin then Deja was teaching Jonathan
how to do a love heart it literally took
him like five minutes to learn how to do
double tap if you love our love heart
guys then we went to Vivid have you guys
been yet Deja loved watching the Opera
House change colors while we're at
dinner

I had probably wasted hundreds of
dollars at this point on clothes that I
would buy my daughter and she would not
wear so I officially quit and I'm having
her do all the shopping seriously the
amount of money I would have saved if
she would have just bought her clothes
from the beginning first up obviously we
went to her favorite stores and we got
two outfits and accessories of course
first outfit was very on brand ballerina
inspired obviously but it's also like on
Trend because I see so many people
rocking the leg warmer you're gonna have
to give this outfit a 10 out of 10
because she crushed it I mean seriously
stunning for the second outfit she got a
matching set you cannot go wrong with
matching sets and she looks adorable

last month I went wedding dress shopping
with my dad and I let her pick my
wedding dress up until this happened
let's all have a moment of silence for
the dress that got ruined in alterations
the seamstress said that she would try
and fix it but my wedding's in four days
and I have no time so a month later and
here we are again did I cry over
absolutely but now I'm in a different
headspace everything's gonna go well
we're gonna find a dress oh yeah did I
mention Grace hates her dress because
it's itchy so there's that she's also
dress shopping too this is the First
dress that Grace tried on and it's funny
because she actually tried this on last
time we were here too Megan was our
stylist at David's Bridal and she
instantly became my best friend like she
helped Grace pick this whole entire look
and then she gave me this dress to try
guys this would have been the dress like
if it was a size smaller but then she
found me this one and I gasped like this
is the one now we will not be touching
these dresses until day of wedding
because we just can't risk it

I'm like 90 positive that my boyfriend's
proposing sometime this week now I only
say that because he's told me like 10
different times to go and get my nails
done and I've just been there oh and he
stole my DSLR camera like as if I
wouldn't notice so for the next couple
of days I'm doing like all the pampery
things first I have to book a facial
with April because one ounce of stress
and Boop my favorite guy has signed up
monthlies to my face Grace was so
patient during my appointment that April
did a little something on her too it's
finally time to get her nails done and
we're so excited now I don't know the
details of the proposal obviously but I
do know that my boyfriend has a ring for
my daughter Grace which is why he sent
both of us to get our nails done which
was so here was my inspo pick the nails
I was going for these are this is what I
got this is what I got send help we're
on TJ Maxx picking up Nails stay tuned

[Music]
coming up
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you
[Music]

biryani
[Music]
[Music]
chocolate

I am not a great teacher I can do a lot
of things and I can show you how I do
them but if you want me to teach you I'm
going to use too many words it's going
to get confusing but recently my kid
asked me to teach her how to crochet and
I said sure cuz even though I'm not a
great teacher I still try so I got our
supplies I explained it to her I showed
her how we did hand over him we took it
slow but within 15 minutes she had lost
interest she was done but then yesterday
she asks if I'll teacher had a crochet
again and I said sure but last time you
didn't seem interested anymore when you
weren't immediately good at it she said
it wasn't that she wasn't interested
it's that she was getting frustrated by
tried to help it felt like I was doing
it for her so she got bored she laughed
and said I don't really like help I like
to do things myself I said I know but
you have to learn how to do something
and accept help to be able to do it by
yourself and she agreed so we came up
with a plan for next time where we'll
talk about more than crocheting while
we're trying to crochet to make sure we
stay on the same page and minimize
frustration CU while teaching isn't a
strength of Mind communication is and if
I want to become a better teacher which
I do then leaning into the things I know
I'm good at is only going to help me

my mom woke me up way too early today I
said hell no I'm going back to bed but
then I remembered that there's less
competitions dumpster diving in the
morning so that was enough to get me out
of bed this has a rule where I
have to shower after I dumpster dive
which is just ridiculous so
obviously I had to go sit in another
garbage can after I took a shower I
asked really nicely if I could get into
the Forbidden cupboard today to which
she said no I started practicing the
trajectory of my to give her pink
eye and then because mom forced me to
get out of bed I had to force Dad to get
out of bed and violence is the only
answer to get him out of bed but don't
worry we made up after W he said he'd
open the cupboard for me when Mom's not
home so I took that as a victory and ate
some corn in my emotional support coffee
pot and oh my God my mom ducked up her
shoulder at the gym recently so she got
this machine but come on we both know
what we're thinking this does and you
want to know what pissed me off today my
dad brought my mom strawberries and
 flowers where are the bird
toys when the sun's down I will strike

a couple of weeks ago was my daughter's
first ever picture day but it was a big
fat mood killer because she hated how
the photos turned out fast forward to
present day is picture retake day so
welcome to her Glam chair with her Glam
team aka me yes she is baby speed like
last time we took a much more
conservative route but we're like no we
are putting in our colorful extension
and yes we're blinging her hair out
because that's what she wants we're
putting on a hint of makeup just for fun
she obviously does not need it but I
mean like have you seen her face she's
gorgeous either way um yeah The Vibes
during this whole thing were absolutely
Immaculate to see the joy in her eyes
and her smile as she's like getting
ready because she just loves this she
did ask if we could take pictures before
we went to school because we don't want
what happened last time now do we where
did that come from I don't know I
apologize so here we are again with a
similar setup of getting ready to take
some photos of her the post queen
strikes again like I did not teach her I
can't even take photos like this guys
I'm gonna go edit these photos and then
we'll be back for part two

did I just get judged by an 11 month old
I think I did Crimson was brushing up
his hair today we had some waffles with
Jam lots of butter on mine because it
tastes way better that way MB thinks
that that's a community water bowl when
it's actually for tuxedo and I keep
telling her honey you are a little human
you are not a little Chihuahua but you
went upstairs with hubby with the big
girls they were folding some laundry and
I heard some commotion and I go up and
look at this kid
with me
sure my little Shadow these days you
guys I turn around and she's there and I
wouldn't have it any other way but we
had some dinner we had some carrot
muffins these girls those Huggies we
really gotta get our winter tires on
this car again it feels like we just
took them off but then we cut it on the
couch and just a warning you guys she's
gonna get
oh really

[Music]
water but
[Music]
look

[Music]
I would be a lie if I said my first year
of college flew by it didn't at least
not for the most part but now it's over
I definitely learned a lot most of which
being outside the lecture Halls like
audible maybe earth's greatest creation
not sponsored or how everything costs
money everything
but I also realized how much I took for
granted what I had at home
just physically being with your family
is criminally underrated and it's really
nice not have to take my wallet and key
if I want to use the back bathroom
or run
or eat
but you can always just eat out it's
dope knowing your friends are probably
having the same experience feeling the
same things but you're back and they're
back so now you can finally hang out
or you can just go out in general
while I'm not necessarily excited to go
back I'm definitely not dreading the
fall either college is cool
but there's really no place like all
[Music]

do you know what freaks me out standing
on the edge of a building and looking
down I almost feel dizzy or like I'm
going to fall off the edge even though
that's not possible it's still so scary
we left Asia in the room while she was
sleeping because you know I'm on a
mission to build my pancake butt and I
want you guys to know something that I
tell my kids if you're trying to get
healthy like me it doesn't mean you have
to stop eating your body needs food
don't starve yourself just try and make
good choices as often as you can but
that was really hard for me today
because this Buffet is amazing if I'm
being honest data and I are a little
scared about what we're doing today
apparently if you have claustrophobia
it's not good and I swear Deja and I
both have that then it was time to face
our fears not the portable toilets even
though that is one of my fears but dark
Spectrum so you go down into this tunnel
they give you a little warning message
before you go in and my heart started to
race they were explaining each room and
what to expect but they also said if you
feel scared at any time you can find a
worker but it wasn't even that scary it
was so much fun and then Jonathan and I
went out for dinner Deja didn't want to
come and she ordered a hundred dollars
worth of room so as well foreign

it's Christmas Eve and we're getting
ready to go to some of our family
parties Grace was inspired by all the
presents under the Christmas tree that
we're gonna do bows in her hair like
we're turning her hair into bows I've
never actually done this before but I
saw a Pinterest video so I think I'm
good I first put two buns in her hair
and then I'm braiding the rest and then
separate the bun and then put the braid
over and around it if that makes sense
and then I secure it with another hair
tie it was actually really really simple
and it turned out so cute we actually
did end up putting bows in her hair too
Grace what do you think I love it

who doesn't steal things from hotels
when they check out I mean the crown
Hotel even has shoe polish even though
I've literally never polished my shoes
in my life you know I'm taking it after
the gym we went and had some breakfast
did you know on this day last year there
were 1.9 million of you following my
little family and now there's over 4.5
million isn't that crazy we're about to
enter a new chapter of Our Lives because
my daughter is planning on moving out
this year so I'm trying to spend as much
quality time with her as possible I
already know I'm gonna be a total mess
when she leaves so we got a massage done
today they gave us Mini Chocolate and it
kind of looks like worming chocolates
but I swear I don't have worms then we
went to have some lunch and look I want
to teach you something for when you eat
oysters so when you're done you actually
need to put the shell upside down to let
the waiter know that you're finished are
you guys allergic to anything tisha's
allergic to eggs so I get to eat all her
legs legs eggs it's the best thing ever
also I need to get something off my
chest everyone I've run into says
something about this bag about how cute
it is and how much they want it and I
get so awkward because this bag is
literally fake I bought it from Bali

[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you

well it's official I just bought a condo
good morning I started renting this
condo two years ago moving in days just
before Christmas I spent my first
Christmas like Kevin McAllister no
decorations no family and saying that
time to find myself a Christmas tree
thanks to Facebook Marketplace I found
one for a pretty good price it's time to
change the fall table decorations got
some Garland I'm gonna put on this year
a quick clean up before I have to tear
down my outdoor patio really wish I did
this before it snowed lots of funny
things on this patio in the summer the
lake still hasn't froze time to hop on
zwift and get a bike ride in always
feels good to move the body I'm making a
spinach smoothie I have to do some
editing don't already know I went to
school for Film Production dinner
tonight is leftover steak asparagus
peppers and couscous that's around

tell me why my six-year-old asked for
pretzel hair today yeah I have no clue
what that means either but we'll figure
it out because today is a big day so our
new glasses came and it'll be her first
day wearing them and Grace is a little
bit nervous but I told her she has
absolutely nothing to be worried about
she is stunning inside and out and
glasses are just an accessory oh and if
you didn't see our last video she also
picked out glasses for me which are just
blue eyeglasses just so I can wear them
so she feels more comfortable but mine
haven't come yet so that'll be a whole
nother video also for not knowing what
pretzel hair is I think I did a
phenomenal job I showed razor glasses
and tell me why her outfit matches
perfectly they're amazing on her she's
gonna have a great day

what are you
[Music]
doing
wow oh good job
[Music]
want
[Music]
wow shoot let's
go I'm
done is he gry
[Music]
chopping

my mom is in town because our wedding is
only eight days away and her being here
really got me thinking about all the
times I pranked her with fake Starbucks
it's genuinely been years since I've
treated her to a real Starbucks so today
that's exactly what we're gonna do we're
gonna trick her by getting her actuals
it's perfect because today we're running
a ton of wedding errands anyways we're
at Target and we went to that store of
course Grace wanted it on this too
because I mean we've been doing this for
years now she was a little hesitant
because we've really made her some gross
concoctions but I had to get the pink
drink because that's the first copycat
recipe we ever did

you guys know I've been renovating my
Outback home with my dad my dad is a
simple man there's three things he loves
number one my mom number two my dog and
number three gardening no like I'm not
kidding I'm gonna show you guys his
plant collection but first we're
spending the morning together I got on
my swimmers my overalls we made our way
to the bakery it's a Saturday so we've
got to meet pie and a coffee it was the
burst like you just can't beat this we
then took our dog Pippi to the beach and
she loves it I went for a little bit of
a swim it's getting cold now because
winter is coming along but it's still so
pretty now yes he loves my mom and my
dog but you know what he loves gardening
the most well not really but like Loki
he was walking through and he was like
these are Agaves bromeliads yakkas and
succulents and I'm like what he was like
okay Brady choose a plan and I chose
this one because the stems look like
celery it's now time to plant it but
before he had to have a little cuddle
with the cat are you ready to see his
garden this is just one section and you
see the pond there he hand made it in
the pond at these beautiful Koi fish so
that I gave them a little bite to eat
and then my dad pointed to the big rock
and out comes this running stream of
water okay now it's time to plant it we
decided to put it right next to the pond
and there we go it's looking cute okay
bye

have you ever randomly met a famous
person because we did today so we're
exploring Venice at the moment and I
really wanted to go to Beverly Hills
Hotel for breakfast but they were booked
out so we found another fancy restaurant
instead now I certainly regret this
because this Bagel was 51 Australian
dollars and Jonathan ordered two extra
slices of bacon for 25 my inner Filipino
was crying but as I was walking out I
saw Arnold Schwarzenegger he was
literally sitting with his family having
breakfast Americans tell me this I know
you have so many famous people who live
there but like how normal is it for you
to see famous people out and about and
why was no one fangirling him anyways
while we were shopping teacher wouldn't
stop complaining about things being
blurry she thought she was jet lagged
but I think she needs to get her eyes
checked when we get back to Australia
then she got a massive migraine so we
left her at the hotel and we went for a
ride along the beach and then we had
japa dogs you guys kept telling me to go
try them and they were amazing they did
not disappoint but it wasn't enough and
so we booked a table at the Cheesecake
Factory this meal was over 2 000
calories that's what you're supposed to
eat in one day

this morning my six-year-old asked me if
I could create a hairstyle that was a
cross between Anna and Elsa from Frozen
like what am I a wizard I'm not but
pinterested literally was on there for
two seconds and I found something
obviously I had to include a braid I
mean both of them were them so that's
where we started so basically we braided
one side all the way down and now we're
doing the exact same thing on the other
side I checked with the queen to see if
she was approving this thankfully she
was that we could like move on with the
rest of the hairstyle okay in the
Pinterest video I had to watch this like
50 times before I got it so watch
closely watching me do it though it
looks very simple anyways you pull out
the braid a little bit to make it a
little bit more thicker Chris wanted to
give you all a little ASMR brush and
this is the look she loved it and now
she has the giggles

today my six-year-old asked for soccer
hair I'm not quite sure what that looks
like but today's her first ever soccer
so we're gonna go for a look that keeps
her hair out of her face first thing
that came to mind was french braids but
I'm not that good at French braiding
hair it did take me a couple tries and I
was pulling her hair a little bit so I
felt bad but thankfully she ended up
loving it because we can't be late to
her first ever soccer and she was so
excited

I've missed two runs this week but one
thing I am not doing is feeling guilty
because I have a hard run today and I
need my best energy starting with what I
eat we're 3 hours out so I'm eating
normally but making sure to get some
extra carbs because today I've got to
hold 40 minutes at race Pace 1 hour out
and that good energy has left me I think
I might be spiraling but I've tried to
do this ponytail five times my shoulders
are burning and I'm sweating but I'm
going to try warming up I have no idea
if I can hold my race pce for 40 minutes
because I've never done it so my plan
for today is to break 40 minutes down
into four 10 minute chunks do the first
10 below race Pace next 10 at race Pace
then once in halfway I'll reevaluate I'm
interrupting the voice over I cannot I
just ran a 640 mile for my final mile of
this workout to put this into
perspective my mile PR prior to this
block of training was a
745 and that's like doing just one mile
I ran a 640 at the end of a 40-minute
workout guaranteed I will not shut up
about it so thank you for running with
me

welcome to a day in my life as a mom of
three and a full-time content creator it
was a microwave pancake type morning my
middle was not having it until she had
food and then she was happy again I go
to the gym after I drop Hayden off in
the mornings and Gerard deals with the
little ones
did you hear that Emmett learned how to
say how are you and we think it's the
cutest thing ever then I got home from
the gym got ready had breakfast did my
makeup and today we tried to make these
little homemade fruit snacks which I'm
gonna let you see how that worked out
for us
[Music]
so as you can see I'm not sure what went
wrong but something definitely went
wrong better luck next time then I took
my lunch on the go and headed to a curly
hair salon to get the girls some hip
hugs
[Music]

summer is when I feel alive and I can
stay in the sun all day enjoy the
weather and swim in the sea oh how I
love summer
[Music]

my six-year-old woke up 45 minutes
earlier than she normally does now the
last time she did this she was trying to
impress him but he wanted to take extra
time in the morning to get ready so I
just asked her straight up girl to girl
like what's going on today how can I
help not my husband being the most
obnoxious morning person but we love him
anyways Grace ended up saying that the
last time we did this she loved it and
she loved doing it for herself rather
than trying to impress her actual tears
welled up in my eyes cause let's be real
this girl had no one to impress about
herself

I got invited to the Grammys after I got
ready Google sent a car to my house and
drove me straight to the red carpet I
had an obligatory robot moment and then
got some cool photos taken by the
paparazzi I felt like a movie star I got
to do a spin in front of a robot arm
which was a dream come true then I went
to the arena this place was huge
obligatory robot moment I was invited to
the special Google Suite which had free
food so of course I stayed there the
whole night then the show started
what do you think
when it was over I went to the after
party and I'll just let past me describe
what I thought about it there's
butterfly men
what is going on

I genuinely feel like I'm pregnant now
I'm only two days late for my period
which honestly is not abnormal if you
couldn't tell I'm basically spiraling at
this point and need to know either way
so let's go take a pregnancy test I have
not been pregnant in like seven years
I've been a single mom up until December
of 2022 when I got married so honestly
it feels so weird even walking down the
side and like going through this process
I guess like I forgot how to take a
pregnancy test like I know they're dummy
poop but I felt like I was gonna do it
wrong my full reaction is live on our
Channel

welcome to another Sunday reset with us
we started off with groceries organizing
the fridge and our drink fridge which is
a wine fridge that we use for Capri Suns
maybe one day that will upgrade my mom
was actually here this weekend so she
helped out with the kids so we got to
finish moving in a little more this
weekend I made my calendar for February
a couple days early I'm proud of that
and laid out Hayden's outfits and put
them in her little bins you guys these
have been life-changing for us and it
helped me with some laundry we finished
hanging up more decor and then my
brother came over as well and brought
him it's cousin Brynn he is kidless so
we count Bren as a cousin we finished
hanging up some more Decor in the girls
room and in the day picking some oranges
off our trees and making some homemade
juice which I just got and I'm so
excited about

my six-year-old literally woke up an
hour earlier for school and she told me
the reason why is because she's trying
to impress somebody she did drop a name
and then I had to go to like the class
photo to see who it was anyway she
wanted to wear one of her new Christmas
outfits and obviously do her hair a
little bit different and while we were
getting ready I thought it was a good
time to just have a little girl chit
chat you know I spent years trying to
impress and find validation in other
people and it just like wasn't worth it
what's important to me is how Grace
feels and thinks about herself like do
we think icons have sleepless nights
thinking of ways to impress one person
absolutely not and Grace is an icon she
was absolutely obsessed with her outfit
and hair and at the end of the day
that's really all that matters

the night before every booking I make
sure that my kit is clean sanitized and
tidy for the next day it wasn't a crazy
early morning like they usually are I
only had to wake up at 4am left the home
by 4 30 and got there by five o'clock
and I did my bride some hair and makeup
while I waited for the photographers to
take pictures discovered this cute
little chair that looked very
uncomfortable but actually was pretty
comfortable then we took some pictures
on the balcony before the dupatta went
on and that was the end of that booking
when I got home my husband made me a
toast and some jar I took a little nap
and then my husband actually drove me to
my next booking I am seriously so
blessed you guys now it was time to take
the kit up the stairs I looked back at
my kit and the stairs and if you're an
mua you know the struggle at least I got
a big nice room to work with I got the
mom's sister and the bride ready and
they all looked so so beautiful at the
end of the booking the bride's mom gave
me some yummy butter chicken and this
beautiful thank you card

daddy comes home today
is the day oh hello the house is clean
well it's not anymore
is that how you spell daddy because the
more I look at it it doesn't even look
like a word anymore okay we are ready
and driving
button I'm done let's go ladies let's go
get Daddy
[Music]
just your size
[Music]
you find your daddy
[Music]

this is my Vlog camera it's the DJI
pocket 2. I like using it when I travel
because it's super tiny but so powerful
it shoots up to 4K and already has a
default wide angle view the footage
comes out very stable because of its
built-in gimbal it can flip from front
to back facing with just two clicks it
can zoom in and it has lots of other
settings like shooting in manual
shooting in a flat color profile or
connecting to the mobile app it can even
take photos and you can review all the
content on the device as well it also
comes in white I got mine for 500 with
the Creator combo kit but without it
it's 350.

come with me to try magnetic nails first
of all me and my sister have been eating
these Mini Eggs like they're mints
anyways I let my followers pick my next
set of nails and somebody said magnetic
nail po I was actually really excited
about this cuz I have not tried it
before and I'm all for trying something
new anytime they file Sky's Nails I love
seeing all the powder on the table also
look at all those colors and look at
Skyla with her K shaped nails believe it
or not those are actually her natural
nails that she grew out something really
cool about the magnetic nail polish is
that depending on where you put the
magnet you can create different effects
and listen I know dual Chrome nail
polish Is Not A New Concept at all but
the fact that my nails changed color
based on the angle and the lighting is
so cool to me I ended up not getting any
fancy designs this time and that's
because I procrastinated booking my nail
appointment for way too long and I
didn't go see my regular nail tech and I
only trust them with design can I hear a
little commotion for these nails though
and also look at my sisters it's giving
Barbie I'm obsessed with the sparkle we
obviously both love how our nails turned
out and now I'm wondering what nails
should I try next

oh a 500 yen
we're in the skiji fish market finding
food
they're terrible it's not a flavor if
you were two years old you'd love this
it smells so creepy
I thought it was strawberry fruit
leather but it's pork
it's like sweet candied bacon it's
[Music]
go ahead what you no

foreign

have you ever wondered what it's like to
be Filthy Rich well today I'm going to
show you because we're pretending to be
rich in Beverly Hills so we rented out a
car and we're pretending it's a Lambo
okay because that's what rich people
drive we're heading towards the city
where so many celebrities and
billionaires live anyways we drove to
this place called air one this is where
celebrities do their grocery shopping
today we're getting what I think would
be a rich person's breakfast so I got
overnight oats and they were eight
dollars what the hell I could literally
make this at home for 50 cents oh my God
I sound like my mum I don't think rich
people eat pizza for breakfast but Deja
was not interested in having anything
healthy so she got a pepperoni pizza oh
my God squirrel I wish we had squirrels
in Australia they're so damn cute then
we had Shake Shack guys this is hands
down the best fast food you'll have in
America it is way better than in and out
you have to try it I think the buns are
made from like potatoes I don't know but
they're so soft then we got in our Lambo
drove past David dobrik's pizza shop
he's a rich YouTuber drove past Beverly
Hills Hotel rich people stay here drove
past rich houses then drove past for a
day or dry

now I'm not gonna point fingers but some
of you missed the entire point I was not
about to bleach her hair because she
said the prettiest girl in her class's
hair was black because then I felt like
that would be me unfortunately like yeah
you're right like you aren't the
prettiest girl well that is completely
fine she does not have to be anybody
else to be beautiful she like is
stunning not to mention she's already
moved on to wanting some rose gold now
she said this may be the look for the
wedding so we may do a second round
depending on how long it lasts because
we kept the semi-permanent dye in her
hair for only about 15 minutes we began
the rinsing process and I gave her a
nice little scalp massage because those
are her favorite combed her hair and
this is how it turned out

we are in sari sarga which is on the
Arctic Circle and we're hoping to catch
the northern lights today
let's see if we get to see them
[Music]
look at this fresh snow
[Music]
we were going on snow scooters in the
middle of the night minus 15 degrees so
we had to wear these intense suits and
helmet and this look like we were on a
moon Expedition and we went in the
middle of the snow-covered Forest
stopped at random spots and this is what
we saw
super rare to catch the northern lights
in your first visit we were so lucky

hi everyone welcome to a day in my life
so just 13 days left for the first year
professional exams and in the morning I
decided to go to the library
and I sat down to study for the next two
hours now time is 12 30 and
so I decided to go for lunch so now
we're on our way to mess but gang
so that's it for a day in my life see
you guys next time bye

we all know by now I am the fashionista
who bought a very first house in the
outback let's go we started today off by
going to the Antique store you guys know
I love finding cheap stuff and making it
look my style and my vibe I found these
two I don't what are they called I'm
gonna call it a pillar could be so wrong
anyway I also got a mirror I started by
sanding it painting it and then also
guys I wanted I wanted to show you the
real life of the Outback right I went
for a walk through my front yard look at
the bottom of my shoe yep that's after
one walk these are called cat heads with
cat heads at least once a day you get
poked by them in the bottom of your foot
you say owl you pull it out you go your
own way like it's it's bad but you know
it's not too bad anyway back to the
pillar um I sanded it and I put it next
to my fireplace and I gave it that like
shabby chic look and I kept the brown
one brown to match the hallway Vibe okay
guys I don't like giving too many of the
befores because people hate that I
painted the green Walls and the beams
but it is my style that is ginny sleepy
and here is the after I am super happy
and so much work has gone into this
obviously the details aren't done but
that is the gist of it

