hey Beauties welcome back to my channel
I'm going to be sharing the trends that
I'm leaving behind in 2023 and the
trends that I am bringing into 2024
let's go before I'm getting into all the
things I'm leaving in
2023 I want to share with you one thing
that I will be taking with me to 2024 as
well and it's the Voss Health app it's a
health and wellness app that I love
incorporating into my daily routine the
app creates a personalized wellbeing
routine that consists of tests exercises
questions and a lot of really great
things that help to jump start my day in
a more aware intuitive and positive way
something that I've noticed that's
really cool is the more I use it the
more personalized it gets so it really
understands kind of my habits and what I
like and what makes me feel good and
suggest accordingly if you're looking
for ways to become more mindful this
year I highly recommend to check out the
Voss Health app I have a special quote
for you I'll be sharing in the
description box for 20% off the annual
subscription okay I have a confession to
make it is December 2023 and I've
watched a Barbie movie 2 days ago and
that's a very important thing to note
because I feel I've been having Barbie
presents in my life for the past like
six months but I am so ready to leave
Barbie Corp behind I'm talking about the
hot thanks so 2023 I'm talking about the
bows and the Sparkles and the hearts it
was really fun Trend to play into it was
a fun Trend to uh wear and experiment
with and I definitely leaned into it uh
you guys also very much enjoyed my
Barbie content so I appreciate you but
it is time to move on to better and
bigger things we first saw the Barbie
Corp and specifically the hot pink with
Valentino's fashion show fall winter
2022 2023 and I feel like that was our
soft entry point into that era so the
fact that Barbie like managed to come
right after was makes me think there was
like bigger someone manufactured that
Barbie core season for all of us so
thank you so much for your service
Barbie but it's time to go bye- bye
Barbie okay so we said bye-bye to the
Barbies and what we are going to bring
in are the more mature sophisticated
colors I am not saying no completely to
the pinks but I want like a deeper pink
I want a meaningful pink I want a wise
pink is there a wise pink but I'm
talking about colors like Cherry I'm
talking about eggplant I'm talking about
chocolate brown I've been already
leaning towards those colors and I just
feel like there's something very
grounding in them and very easy to
incorporate into the outfits we already
lean more into the blacks and the Grays
and the whites in the winter so I feel
like those will really flow nicely into
that wardrobe the next out I am actually
pretty excited to let go of although I
completely took advantage of that Trend
are the cutouts if you remember there
was a lot of geometrical little shapes
every designer really showcased that
Trend in their own way and they were
very cool outfits to wear I think I very
much leaned into the dresses you know
the rib cutout or the shoulders cut out
mid Rift cut out there was a lot of
cutouts but I am ready to let it go I'm
ready to pull it back in to the classics
one is definitely a thing of the past
for me personally and I think we
definitely will see less and less of
those modern cutouts on clothing we're
saying bye-bye to the cutouts but we are
keeping the skin I do love a beautiful
elegant way to Showcase skin I am
talking about off the shoulder it can be
asymmetrical can be one shoulder or both
shoulders we're talking about a slit for
a dress or skirt and an open bag those
are all classic ways to Showcase a
little skin but in a very sophisticated
beautiful way so we're moving away from
more of the trendy trendy cata and
trendy trendy way to show skin to a more
sophisticated elevated way to show skin
okay this is not a trend I'm leaving
behind per se but this is something that
I'm already jazzing it up so the one
Trend that I feel we can all agree on is
the quiet luxury the monochromatic looks
that is a very easy way to put together
an outfit whenever I feel like I'm in a
pinch I just go for monochromatic outfit
so this will not change but what I do
want to bring in more and I see that I'm
already doing is bringing fun patterns
into my monochromatic looks so I'm
talking
about leopard I'm talking about zebra
I'm talking about s obviously all of it
should be
faux because we're conscious girlies
this is such a fun way to really bring a
piece of your personality a little bit
of flare to an otherwise pretty grounded
and classic outfit some of my outfits
that featured it was for crocodile print
Brown mini skirt with my big brown knit
another thing that I've started doing is
playing around with shoes I actually got
this pair from Stuart Whitman it's a
snake skin boot I wore this high neck
long black dress and then worn the boots
and it was just a little bit of that
snake skin shown that really like
upgraded the outfit and made it feel
more fun and more of a personality
outfit so what I'm trying to say is
don't be scared of bringing some of
these things into your wardrobe the
snake skin the animal prints I feel like
there is a really fun way to tie it back
into the quiet luxury worth mentioning
that if you hear of all these trends
that I'm bringing back these are all
things that most of us have in our
closet or can easily be found at like a
thrift store or vintage store it
encourages me and I know I'm going to be
going back into my closet and finding
the things that been tued away to the
side and I highly recommend for you to
do the same I hope you enjoy this video
let me know which of these Trends you're
going to be bringing into your 2024 or
any of the other Trends you're going to
bring into 2024 very curious to hear
where that fashion Sans is going to
develop in the New Year give me posted
in the comments and I will we'll see you
next time
