the biggest fashion trends of 2024
straight from the runways are coming up
next I've grouped today's categories by
color trends Fabric and texture and the
actual styling trends that we will see
in spring summer 20124 spring 2024 is
ushering in a new era of color in the
Fashion World The Fury Red that
dominated fall winter 2023 has evolved
into a deep and Rich black cherry
designers like GUI Versace Valentino s
laon Tom Ford and her may have embraced
this luxurious Hue making it a central
element of their collections early
adopters are already adding burgundy
pieces to their wardrobes and it's
expected that black cherry will dominate
the fashion scene in An even bigger way
next year spring fashion is synonymous
with light and cheerful colors and for
2024 it's all about buttery mow Shades
designers like Lo and Louis Vuitton have
embraced the soothing and delicate
butter Hue it offers a perfect dose of
sunshine in the form of dresses and
matching sets making it a refreshing
choice for the season fashion takes a
cinematic turn in spring with designers
reminiscent of classic fil Noir Prada's
dark rhinstone en crusted dresses and
eccentric hourglass dresses capture the
Myster serous and Polished yet undone
essence of this genre Dior also joins
the movement offering mostly black
clothing with an offthe shoulder cinched
waist dress that exudes vintage Ure
moving on to fabrics and textile Trends
the rose motifs seen on the runway are
rich in symbolism they represent royalty
literary references and a sense of
Timeless Beauty designers like McQueen
and all men are using roses in prints
and embellishments to add depth and
meaning to their Creations a denim a
Timeless fashion staple is re-imagined
in Spring 2024 fashion designers are
exploring unique uses of this versatile
textile teered stitching creates a
distinctive denim dress silhouette while
Chanel and Valentino showcase full denim
set a departure from their usual style
we also see denim caros on a Runway
adding a new dimension to the classic
material the trend of slashing and
shredding clothing items reflects a
sense of rebellion and a desire to come
undone it's a rebellion against
traditional fashion norms and a
celebration of artistic Freedom Brands
like Peter do Embrace this Unique
avanguard Style knitwear takes center
stage with a particular focus on
Cardigans and feral nits designers like
BGA vet that create intricate pieces
while Molly Gart offers matching Fair
Isa sets and JW Anderson presents
playful Cardigans that at charm and
warmth to the season this year's Runway
showcases sheer white dresses and Floy
Fabrics that evoke an ethereal feeling
these looks represent a desire for
freedom and lightness in a world that
can sometimes feel heavy and serious
Brands like Prada and Mio are r defining
Elegance emphasizing the classical
beauty of fashion without excessive
exposure dresses featuring intricate
lace work and delicate Fabrics create an
elegant and Airy feel designers this
year are crafting garments with cooling
materials like pom pom mesh net and
creative cutouts these designs are
response to the changing climate and the
need for Comfort they represent the idea
of staying cool and fresh in a world
that sometimes feels heated and chaotic
Brands such as bota vanitaa and
Valentino are leading the way Fringe is
making a bold comeback in Spring 2024
Prada takes an intentional approach with
ADD its skirt pieces while Alexander
McQueen and Gucci incorporate subtle
Fringe accents at the end of their
garments Burberry goes all in with
French creating a dramatic yet stylish
look from head to toe this trend
showcases fring's versatility and the
dramatic impact it could bring to
Fashion Nostalgia is at the Forefront of
spring 2024 fashion trends and the '90s
are making a comeback from marne's high
ribbed turtleneck to B tank and cord
penda necklace and layered color
block dresses designers are celebrating
the Chic Aesthetics of this memorable
decade the '90s offer a blend of comfort
style and an edge that resonates with
fashion Enthusiast making it a powerful
trend for the upcoming season business
casual takes on a fresh look with
designers opting for shorter suits
Bermuda length shorts as seen in
collections by Loy and Chanel or the new
staple of office inspired fashion this
trend is complemented by mini hams
making it a perfect choice for the
modern sophisticated professional who
wants to remain stylish while keeping
cool during the warmer months layering
takes a playful and intentional turn in
Spring 2024 fashion Balenciaga and Miu
among other brands showcase the art of
layering in their collections these
designers create unexpected contrast
that feels both laidback and purposeful
layering is not just a practical
approach it's a statement of personal
style allowing for creativity and
individuality and dressing in Spring
2024 designers experiment with
proportions to create unique and
captivating looks Lo and Rick Owens
emphasize high-waisted bottoms yay
offering an eleg silhouette Burberry
updates its classic trench coat with a
low slung waist introducing a new
dimension to this Timeless piece super
sized accents like Peter pen collars and
oversized buttons at vvn Westwood
redefine the fashion landscape proving
that opposites can attract in the world
of style hem have taken a backseat as
the focus shifts to playing with
proportions the elongated silhouette
trend is about experimentation with
highrise pans and dropped waste
redefining fashion Norms Brands like Loy
and Alexander McQueen are reimagining
the way that we perceive clothing Sports
Wear takes on a new level of
sophistication while classic athletic
elements like tracksuits jerseys and
sneakers remain essential designers are
now pairing them with more festive or
tailored pieces to create the right
balance of contrast Louis Vuitton and
Gucci add skirts to Classic sportsare
looks while Mew Mew incorporates Blazers
popped colors and a summer camp Vibe
it's a playful nod to Nostalgia and a
reinvention of preppy style for a new
generation the combination of sporty and
Chic elements redefines at leisure for
the season drawing inspiration from the
circus some designers take spring
fashion to a whole new level Louis
Vuitton's look 35 evokes the atmosphere
of the big top with designs inspired by
clowns acrobats tiro Walkers and
magicians the magician and puppets the
tiro Walker at bod and the lion tamer at
Joel sander bring the circus into highi
fion this trend is a captivating and
entertaining nod to performance art in
clothing the travel experience is
Central too with designs inspired by
women packing and checking into hotels
Louis Vuitton's collection features
mixed silk shirting and pajama inspired
pants while Balenciaga showcases Hotel
inspired bathrobes the row takes a cozy
approach with terry cloth towels worn
around the neck even Runway swimwear at
Chanel and BGA Veta reflects the idea of
a comfortable and stylish travel
wardrobe with the upcoming 2024 Olympics
designers are opting for gold silver and
bronze with their use of metallics this
trend reflects the competitive Spirit
and the desire to shine on and off the
Runway it's all about adding a touch of
Glamour to Everyday wear the appearance
of work wear inspired aprons on a Runway
is a nod to utility and protection these
aprons are not just functional but also
decorative symbolizing the blend of work
and style Brands like Christian Dior and
heres are reimagining the concept of
work attire making it both fashionable
and practical so many fun Trends coming
next season something fresh and vintage
to look forward to if you enjoy this
video you will like the next one where I
cover even more Trends from this season
I'll see you there next
