B your frenic ladies are you finding it
more difficult to dress well as you get
older here are the most common aging
mistakes and what to do instead stay to
the end for my most important tip you
will look younger feel better and look
amazing are you interested the first
fashion mistakes that make you look
older is colors and shades are you
wearing more pastels more Brown more
beige or more black this could be
because you've always worn these colors
of shades or maybe more people your age
around you are wearing these
colors or maybe when you shop they steer
you towards the colors because hey now
you are over 50 over 60 you better start
wearing these aging shades by the way it
is not the actual color or shade that is
aging but the reaction of your
complexion next to it as we age our
complexion changes and of course the
colors of shade that used to suit us may
no longer do so as a woman over 60 some
shades that used to suit me no longer do
so so I have to adjust what I wear on a
regular basis remember style is a
journey not a destination and I think
that our AG we're still on the journey a
quick reminder on how to find the colors
and shades that suit you in daylight
hold the item you want to wear close to
your face if you look tired or in need
of a holiday this is not for you but if
you look fresh and vibrant this shade is
definitely for you so wear it our next
fashion mistake that makes us women over
50 look older
is
pezley why on Earth should we start
wearing pezley when we reach 50 is there
a rule out there that I don't know about
it was huge in the 80s in Liberty London
but we have moved on from them do you
ever see young women wear pezley AR rest
my case here is a dress in pezley what I
do as a woman over 50 is choose a dress
in another print something more fresh
something more modern like stripes or
porot for instance I'm wearing stripes
and look here the difference between
that peisley dress and that strip dress
a world apart our next fashion mistake
that make women over 50 look older
is floral pants what is it with floral
everything when they were younger they
used to wear everything modern
everything really sharp and lovely and I
always wonder what happened for them to
now go for Florals do they have a sign
in shop saying women over 50 here are
your essential floral
pants as a woman over 60 I do not choose
floral pants I stay with my trousers
that are in one solid color like these
like these and like these they're much
more flattering and more veratile and
they are say not aging our next fashion
mistake that makes women over 50 look
older
is
leggings okay I know you're going to
tell me but Maran leggings are worn by
women of all ages that doesn't make me
feel better sorry to be blunt but unless
you are wearing leggings and SS what may
look good on young fashionists may not
work for us as we get older I get it
things start to head downwards so either
wear leggings as tight or again wear
your trousers I wear my trousers or my
denim jeans and then I feel so much
better as a woman over 50 and over 60 I
don't want to have my jiggly bits on
display our next aging fashion mistake
is floral flat shoes I wear floral shoes
because they make me look so young said
absolutely nobody I always say that
Footwear can make or break an outfit I
know many women have feet problem and
they want to wear comfortable flat shoes
but do you really have to go for florals
instead of normal looking shoes I know I
wear a lot of reals but I also have flat
shoes I tend to wear leather shoes
comfortable ones and nowadays they are
so much more comfortable than you used
to be and they usually have an inso that
is very comfortable if they are not too
comfortable place some inso inside for
instance you could op for B flats or
loafers or brogs in leather in one solid
color but florals will AG you in a jiffy
our next aging fashion mistake
is a played tote bag it is not only
floral shoes that seem to have an old
lady magnet they are now on bags like
this to in PL I ask you Bo my advice my
lovely fic ladies is please leave your
bags alone I go for either plain
leather or I go a little bit
crocodilian nice much better than plate
and you can see all my bags behind me
not a plate inside what are the fashion
mistakes that H you let us know in the
comments our next next aging fashion
mistake
is anorex what is it about being older
and wearing anara you are in an anara
well I can tell you you are now
invisible what makes you think that now
that you are a certain age that's it
anoraks come out why go for anarak when
you have other flattering more modern
options at hand now this is what I do as
a woman over 60 a trench coat you will
not see me in anak and I've even got a
trench coat in leather how modern is
that our next aging fashion mistake is
brown Prince I don't know about you but
I always liken Brown florals as old
curtains let me tell you I haven't got
anything against
brown but a brown Floral print is aging
as a woman over 60 if I have to choose a
print this is what I do I choose a print
in two colors one that includes white
because it is fresh modern and they say
rejuvenating do you agree our next aging
fashion mistake
is a droopy bust as we get older things
have a tendency to head south and this
is why we see many older women with
drupy bust as a woman over 60 myself I
know that underw bras are not
comfortable and actually I have stopped
wearing underw bras completely but I
still wear bras that are supportive and
I have a small bust so my advice here is
to get your bust measured and buy
supportive bras you will look so much
younger for it a lifted bust is the
happy bust do you have any tips on
looking younger let us know in the
comments and now for my most important
tip of all it is as a woman over 60 I
think Young therefore I feel young and I
look young if you want more tips about
how to dress younger watch the video on
screen now
