I recently filmed a video on the top
fashion trends that are set to be huge
next year and you all seem to really
like it so today I've decided to film a
part two to that episode except today's
Trends are even more
[Music]
wearable hi I'm Leon and welcome to my
channel now as I mentioned we're talking
2024 fashion trends and I know it's hard
to believe but 2024 is actually just
around the corner so it does make sense
to be thinking and planning about what
is going to be in fashion now of course
that doesn't mean that you have to
slavishly follow the trends it's just a
way of giving yourself a little bit of a
heads up as to what you can expect to
see in store and what potentially is
going to work for you I'm also hoping
that you will already own some of these
pieces so if you're deciding to kind of
move some pieces out or hold on to them
this might help you make that decision
as well and today's episode is also in
collaboration with my friends over over
at Lily silk now Lily silk is a brand
that I have loved and worn for many
years and my new favorite is this
stunning 100% cashmere cozy sweater
which I'm going to show you shortly has
a few different ways to wear it it's
actually part of a set so it has
matching sweatpants to wear with it it
can also be worn on its own and the most
exciting thing about this piece is that
it has a detachable Hood which I will
share with you shortly so I want to
share some of my favorite new pieces
from Lily silk with you today and also I
am delighted to share a discount code
and that is simply 15 style and that
will save you 15% off anything on the
Lily silk website also if you spend over
$500 you can use my code 20 style and
that will save you 20% off your order
and that's orders over $500 I also
wanted to flag that Lily silk has an
amazing Black Friday sale coming up
later this month month so definitely
take a look at that when you can and
these discount codes apply to that Black
Friday sale so you can take an extra 15
or 20% off those already discounted sale
prices so keep that in mind but now I
would like to just show you a few of my
new faves and I'm pretty sure they may
be your new faves as well and then we
will get on to some of these
Trends okay so here is my beautiful
cashmere sweater and as you can see I've
teamed it with the matching sweatpants
and wow this set is just so snuggly and
lovely to wear I've teamed it here with
a simple white long sleeve t-shirt and
my white Adidas sbers for a very kind of
relaxed look and that really is the
beauty of a matching set you can wear
the pieces together or separately and it
just gives you lots of Versatility now
as I mentioned earlier here is the
little Hood which is easily detached and
popped back on just by way of buttons
that sort of button onto the inside of
the neckline there really easy to take
on and off and it just gives you a
couple of different looks I actually
like wearing the hoodie when I wear a
say denim jacket or any sort of jacket I
like the hood being on the outside of
the jacket just to give a bit of a
relaxed look and feel but yeah love the
versatility of this sweater being able
to wear it with a hood or without is
genius and yep matching sets always come
in super handy you have an entire outfit
and those separates that you can style
individually next up is this beautiful
silk cashmere ribbed cardi and again it
is a really versatile piece obviously
here I'm wearing it opened and the great
thing about this particular particular
cardi is that it can be buttoned up as I
just showed you it can be warm with
something underneath like any regular
cardi but it can be worn on its own as a
top buttoned up and as you can see here
it buttons all the way to the neck so it
gives you a little Polo sort of crew
neck as well so it's really versatile I
love the fact that it can be worn on its
own as a top and oh no maybe I'm that's
a bit too low and perhaps not the right
bra but this cardigan is absolutely
beautiful and it's super soft to wear it
just feels light and silky but it's also
warm I don't think I've mentioned to you
guys but I'm heading back to the States
so I ordered these beautiful silk Safari
pants so that I can wear not only on the
plane but wandering around doing some
sightseeing you name it they are really
comfy because they're silk they just
feel light and beautiful I'll probably
be wearing them with a long coat coat I
imagine in the States but these are just
a winner they are a relaxed fit I've
probably gone a size to Big here these
are a large and a medium would have been
enough for me I'm 511 510 and 1 half 511
and I think I could have gone down a
size but I don't mind them oversized I'm
just wearing them with a simple white
long sleeve tea again here teaming them
with my sambers denim jacket these can
be dressed up worn more C casually and
they have pockets yes ah I love pants
and skirts with
pockets now this silk cashmere sweater
you got a little sneak peek of just then
with my Safari pants but I decided to
team it with my long pleated skirt which
is how it is shown on the Lily silk
website and I love this look I love the
fact that it can be worn more casually
with some trainers or Sneakers but also
it could be dressed up if you wanted to
go for a night out these sorts of pieces
are absolutely Timeless they're classic
pieces that I always own and for that
reason I tend to invest a little bit
more in them because I do know that they
will last the distance now the first
Trend and one that I am really excited
about personally because I've loved them
for a long time and that is the return
of belt bags now belt bags in 2024 are
going to be a little bit more elevated
and perhaps a little sparklier than we
used to I know I've been wearing belt
bags or fanny packs whatever you call
them over the last couple of years and
they've definitely been more of a sort
of a sporty style like the one I've got
here let me just show you this is one of
my faves from a Australian label c
nation bought this a couple of years ago
and have absolutely worn it to death I
love the fact that you get the handsfree
element from a belt bag you also get
that kind of punch of color like this
bag here is giving to an outfit and in
my mind belt bags just tend to give an
outfit a little bit of extra EXT ra
shape and just a little bit of an extra
wow factor so let me know in the
comments below if you're a fan of belt
bags or if they're a hard no for you I
would really like to know your thoughts
and if you don't like them why don't you
like them anyway I love them they are
going to be huge for 2024 so definitely
keep an eye out now another Trend that
we can expect to see a lot of next year
is bomber jackets now you're probably
saying that bomber jackets haven't gone
out of style they're still in style and
you would be right but what we are
seeing is they have changed a little as
designers tend to do they sort of mix
things up and change them a little but
they are not quite as oversized as they
have been and they're just a little bit
more tailored if you will there are sort
of smaller pocket details some of the
bombers have even had small collars
lapels attached so they are just a
little bit more refined and if you're
anything like me you will know how
versatile bombers are they just give you
that extra layer a little bit of extra
warmth and can create a little bit of
interest to an outfit so there should be
a lot of bombers on offer but as I said
they're just a little bit more elevated
than they have been now next year
sweaters are being hailed as the new
scarves and I am so here for this trend
so a lot of designers I noticed on
runways sent their models down wearing
sweaters kind of draped around their
neck in the same way that you would a
wrap or a neck scarf a nice woolly scarf
so interestingly I did exactly this the
other day when I was Hing out I had a
very simple outfit a pair of blue jeans
a white tank top and just needed
something a little extra I've got a
beautiful bright pink knit and I kind of
just slung that over my shoulders
created it as part of my outfit and it
just added a little bit of something
extra and then I sort of noticed that
designers are really taking this trend
and running with it next year so
sweaters are going to be used as a nice
kind of extra layer if you will wrapped
around your neck and also used as an
extra layer to perhaps cinch in your
waist I've talked a little bit recently
in some of my videos about how waists
are going to be shown off more next year
and so cinching yourself in with a
colorful or a lovely sweater is going to
be a really good option as well I know
that the sweater that I'm currently
wearing is going to be absolutely great
for this just in it with some of my
whites and some of my Navy pieces it's
going to be an absolute winner but
definitely look at your sweaters in a
very different way next year and
consider them as an extra piece to wrap
around and snuggle up with and add that
little bit of extra interest to an
outfit now this year has been very much
about silver fashion trends silver
metallics have been everywhere in
handbags shoes accessories pants jackets
you name it we've seen a lot of silver
this year next year gold metallic is
taking center stage now if you're
someone like me who prefers a bit of a
warmer metallic then you're in luck next
year because there will be lots of
lovely warm Goldie metallics on offer
and the same way that we've seen them
with silver this year we'll be seeing
gold next year we're also going to be
seeing a little bit of bronze that's not
quite as big a trend as gold but
certainly there will be a little bit of
bronze happening next year as well but
if you love metallics then gold is
happening for next year and just treat
it like a neutral in any other way that
you would wear a neutral it's a good
basic piece I know designers were
sending their models down the runway in
top to toe gold I'm not necessarily
suggesting you do that but a beautiful
gold knit or a gold accessory is a
lovely and very easy way to update an
outfit now I probably shouldn't have
been so surprised about this trend but I
was because leggings are very much
having a moment next year as well now
leggings are one of those pieces that
are always around obviously they are
something that we wear to the gym
there's that sort of sport Lux look that
leggings offer but the big Trend that's
happening next year is dresses being
worn over pants and of course leggings
were going to help when it came to
creating that particular look so there
are all sorts of leggings on offer and
what I am talking about is leggings that
are worn in a fashionable way not so
much in a gym kind of workout way and
I've even seen some leggings returning
with stirrups the good old sterup
leggings will be making a bit of a
comeback it does make sense we will be
potentially looking for more of a fitted
type pant to wear under our skirts and
dresses if that's a look that you're
going to go with next year so leggings
definitely serve a great purpose they're
also super comfy they look great worn
with trenches and long coats which is
also happening next year and that's
probably a really good segue into the
next Trend which is those trenches and
Longline coats which we've seen a lot of
this year if you've invested great in my
opinion these pieces never go out of
style anything that is a sort of a midi
or fulllength coat or trench is going to
just get wear year after year after year
these are Timeless pieces so there are
going to be lots on offer if you haven't
found yourself being sort of drawn to
these longer line coats in the pass
definitely check out and see what is
around because there will be definitely
lots and lots of different options
available and that's the great thing
about Trends it just means that they are
more on offer so expect to see those
Longline coats and trenches very much a
happening thing for 2024 as well I'm
very happy about it you can create a
very simple base outfit and then top
your look off with a Longline coat or
trench just easy I also wanted to touch
on some of the denim trends that will be
happening for next year and there's a
lot of interesting things happening with
Denim and of course jeans are a go-to no
matter what they're always in fashion
for those of you that like skinnies
you'll be pleased to know that skinnies
are definitely still a happening thing
next year I mean in my mind if you like
skinnies you just wear them all the time
if they suit your style and your
lifestyle wear them but in particular
there are still a lot of high-waisted
jeans around which is kind of
interesting because we did see a little
bit of a move towards more lowrise jeans
but the high-waisted jeans are very much
happening and denim with a little bit of
Interest so just some detailing a little
bit of distressing is weaving its way
back in nothing too crazy but a little
bit of distressing and also a lot of
interesting washes in black denim as
well now I think black denim jeans are a
are a really good goto to own as well
they can look a little bit more elevated
or a little bit dressier than just a
classic denim blue denim wash regular
wash Jean um and also they tend to be
quite easy to style as well especially
if you like color they're very easy to
style back with color so there are some
options when it comes to dark denim not
super dark denim but they do have a bit
of a lighter wash to them so some really
nice black denim options high-waisted
and then denim jeans with a little bit
of detailing similar to kind of what I'm
wearing today I'll just see if I can
stand up and show you these jeans that I
absolutely love that have a double
waistband going on here so there are
lots of different and interesting
options when it comes to jeans next year
as well so keep an eye out designers
like Prada and heres sent some of their
models down the runway wearing one of my
all-time favorite colors and that is
gray Mal now I particularly love gray as
a neutral we've seen lots of torps and
chamy colors like the one I'm wearing
which I'll always love but we haven't
seen as much gray and gray M so I'm
really excited about the return of these
beautiful Grays they are again a neutral
very easy to style look beautiful and
Timeless and knits I love a grey mile
sweater with a bright red lip they look
great teamed back with the black denims
regular denim you name it there are
plenty of options with grey M I've also
seen designers peering sort of top to
toe looks with with with this gray so
gray is very much a happening color we
know that there are some other beautiful
colors happening for next year that I've
touched on in my previous video red
being one of those colors and all sorts
of shades of blue from sort of Navy to
more of the lighter pastel Blues there
are some beautiful color Hues happening
next year but the grey Mile in my mind
is just such a good basic and a Timeless
color to own and wear so if you already
own some make make sure you hold on to
it I've also seen a lot of Pinstripes
returning for next year as well and
again I think this is a really nice
departure from some of the suits and
matching sets that we've seen that have
been in more kind of neutral Shades so
pen Stripes is a great kind of little
departure from where we've been I love a
penstripe I think that it's a Timeless
look and again if you're wearing pin
stripes there is that added benefit of
it being a a little bit more of an
elongating pattern to wear so Pinstripes
are making a return next year and think
more along the lines of in suiting so
trousers pinstriped vests some beautiful
pinstriped skirts as well but it's a
really lovely slightly more elevated and
more sophisticated take on just a
regular classic suit now another Trend
that is very much happening and in fact
it's not exactly a fashion Trend it's
more of an outfit look and that is
dresses teamed with knee high boots now
I love the practicality of this look I
love the fact that you can wear your
dresses more trans seasonally so more of
your summer dresses and lighter weight
dresses through to the cooler months it
also just gives you a really seamless
look and it's a look that I particularly
love so if you like this look and you'd
like to get more wear out of some of
your summer dresses then definitely look
at creating some outfits with knee high
boots anyway that's it from me today I
hope you enjoyed en this one and if you
did I'd love you to give it a big thumbs
up don't forget to subscribe to my
channel for more and take advantage of
those Lily silk discount codes as I said
all of the information will be in the
description box below so if you are
looking to grab some beautiful Timeless
pieces that you will wear this year next
year and Beyond then definitely take
advantage of that Lily silk offer it's
all down in the description box below
but that's it for me today I'll see you
soon
bye
[Music]
