the official fashion zodiac calendar is
sponsored by squarespace.com people love
Zodiacs and astrology because people
love hearing about themselves it just
feels nice to confirm your beliefs but
not like the basic stuff though I don't
like the whole oh you're a Scorpio which
means you're passionate I don't know I
feel like that's just so boring I it's
too easy there's a lot of power here
that we can really be channeling you I'm
talking about the real sauce in Our
Stars the whole like oh you're a Scorpio
which means you twist the truth and
become emotionally manipulative in
arguments that's this that's what I'm
trying to know not the whole oh you're a
Gemini which means you're curious how
about oh you're a Gemini which means you
have to be two-faced because you
regularly lose interest in things
including yourself and since allegedly
your birth chart kind of defines your
personality and fashion is a direct
extension of your personality doing some
simple girl math right here there's got
to be a correlation and so today I
wasted no fing time I created the first
official fashion zodiac calendar so that
you can see what your birthday has to do
with your style because apparently that
matters all right let's just get into it
so the first one we got right here Aries
this is a very popular one I have a lot
of Aries friends March 21 to April 20
Aries People are very bold energetic
charismatic passionate and driven by
their heart's desires they always have
to feel like they're all in on something
but when they are they're Unstoppable
see that sounds nice right but
personally what I'm getting from this is
you are exhausting and aggressively
wrong but if you're a fashion Aries I
feel like it only makes sense that
you're the type of person to have very
polarizing opinions on fashion which I
guess everyone kind of does but you guys
are just something else though like you
love what you love and you hate what you
hate there is very rarely an in between
fashion Aries are open to new things but
they're also very quick to judge for
example you buy a pair of Ramones right
there's only two outcomes for this so
situation one you don't like how they
look on you which should be fine but
then boom instantly trend is garbage I
don't understand that these kids this
whole thing is trash and also Rick Owens
as a whole is just super pretentious and
weird why do people care about that now
you're just hating from outside
of the club but then there's also
situation two where they do look good on
you and then all of a
sudden
you see like why does it have to be like
this why can't you just enjoy things for
what they are why do you have to win why
do you have to always be right I like
the passion though next we got Taurus
for all my April 21 to May 20 birthdays
Tauruses are down to earth tenacious
relx reliable loyal and just overall
well-rounded people that I feel like a
lot of people get along with easily in
in other words but being well-rounded is
good though I feel like it's a very
admirable trait like for fashion
touristes I feel like your approach to
style is very neutral and most
importantly Timeless like you have a
base of what you really like and you
look really good in your clothes and it
just almost feels like style is
effortless to you but at the same time
if you're too well-rounded I feel like
you lose your Edge and as much as we
really like the description I just gave
of this person quick what was the fit
that I had on them what were they
wearing what was the tourist what was
the fashion tourist fit I just had on
screen see you don't even remember what
the fit was that's the point you're
forgettable
lowkey it's kind of embarrassing but at
the same time you don't have to worry
cuz we're not even going to remember you
anyways so you're very agreeable but
you're forgettable in some ways though I
feel like we need more of you guys I'm
tired of the memorable a lot of the
memorable stuff kind of sucks next we
got an iconic one May 21 to June 21
Gemini babies oh my goodness all right
so it says right here that Gemini people
are constantly juggling a variety of
passions Hobbies careers and friend
groups they are the Social Butterflies
of the
zodiac interesting okay so obviously I
feel like The Stereotype for Geminis is
their two-faced their sign is like the
twins or whatever and by two- faced I
mean like there's always a hidden agenda
that you don't know about or like they
act totally different around different
people I guess it's just kind of
socially annoying but for fashion on the
other hand I feel like the whole Gemini
stereotype can be pretty cool the whole
two-faced wardrobe kind of thing it's a
cool concept I always think it's sick
when people have duality in their
wardrobe and pull it off the key
phrasing there is pull it off though you
know who you are don't just don't just
gloss over the pulling it off part you
know those people that just have a
really nice neutral everyday style that
they kind of just do their thing very
casual but then they like pop off at
night like they become a different
person it's just like the sleeper build
wardrobe you know the sleeper build
wardrobe is like the craziest ever
in some ways this is actually the most
optimal for most Lifestyles sleeper
build wardrobe but you see like a
sleeper build personality though
June 22nd to July 22nd cancer babies
cancers are intense incredibly
charismatic and attractive but also very
possessive and Moody it's a true Rider
die person but I feel like their
attitude can change on a dime kind of
contradictory but I feel like in a way
that's their whole thing anyways a lot
of words to just describe annoying the
fashion equivalent of this is super
specific I don't know why why I mean I
guess I'm the one coming up with this
but it's super specific I feel like it
makes sense it's the person that like
will always try to put you on to some
new stuff they'll always try to
introduce you to things and put you on
but then as soon as you start kind of
being receptive they'll just never let
you forget who put you on to this like
for example the first person in the
group that started wearing Al and then
as soon as they see you wearing a Yankee
fitted for the first time all of a
sudden it's yo I saw I saw that I saw
that colorway too that yeah like way
before you though like I saw it but then
I was just kind of looking at it like
yeah but see do I really need this cuz I
already been had this hat anyways like I
don't need a new color in a hat that
I've been had so like I didn't buy it
but it's like a nice hat though it looks
really good on you though it looks good
on you though it looks good on you
though why can't I just look good in
something and then you don't have to be
involved but I do feel like the people
that do this to at some capacity are
kind of coming from a good place at
least like they want their friends to
enjoy what they're enjoying but then
they always want a piece of your joy
because don't forget who put you on
though like they just don't want you to
forget who put you on though just
remember who put you on to this though
see it it's good right but don't forget
who but don't forget who taught you how
to do okay now we're I feel like we're
really hitting our stride July 23 to
August 23 Leos Leos always want to be
the center of attention always the life
of the party huh the showoffs the main
characters we all know these guys okay
so but for a fashion Leo I feel like
this kind of speaks for itself you guys
just wear whatever you want whenever you
want which is nice but at the same time
it's like do you really have to be
wearing that right now it's a good
quality it's something we always search
for but like why is it annoying you know
there's got to be something cuz I'm just
I don't want to see this I I'm so tired
of seeing you even though you look good
though but I next up we got the
stereotypical opposite to Leos Burgos
from August 24 to September 23 Virgos
are humble self-facing reliable and
hardworking unlike Leos who externalize
everything Virgos keep a lot to
themselves and have a lot more going on
internally and so naturally a fashion
Virgo would be someone that opts for a
more reserved approach to style not
necessarily minimalism but rather
clothing that just kind of suffices
their basic aesthetic needs and you know
this kind of bubble they find themselves
in can either come from a place of
overthinking like overthinking just
fashion in general and how they might
come across to others in more ambitious
clothing keeping them in this kind of
safe bubble but it could easily just
also come from a place of I don't care
how I look I just want to wear what
works overall I feel like fashion viros
are pretty unpr problematic but at the
same time you will never be in the goat
conversation you won't it's impossible I
hope you know that but I hope you know
that's fine though okay we're at the
halfway mark which makes sense for this
next one Libra September 24 to October
23 Libras are all about balance peace
Harmony that is literally their whole
thing like their mascot is a scale which
is kind of lame I guess but like it is
what it is it's on it's on brand I love
Libra people though cuz they're like the
voice of reason in the group we need
that like I'm not necessarily going to
take your advice but it's nice to know I
love the effort in being the moral
compass you guys are the best so a
fashion Libra is someone who has a
methodical balanced approach to style
like everything in your wardrobe system
has a purpose and everything works well
together there's little to no wardrobe
bloat no waste in there everything is
accounted for just like think of capsule
wardrobe people people with like a
rotating set of clothes and a rare
quality for someone in fashion I feel
like fashion Libras have inhibition
impulse buying is just at an all-time
low compared to the rest of us you're
just very methodical and balanced as all
things should be personally I feel like
a lot of the magic that happens in
fashion comes from the irrational
decisions both financially and
creatively that's just me though like if
you want to be fashion Thanos that's
cool too take your scale but all right
where are my freaks at where are my
fashion freaks at Scorpio October 24th
to November 22nd this is another heavily
stereotyped one Scorpios are known for
their loyalty passion ambition and
infamously they are very known for being
freaks y'all are some freaks y'all are
some weirdos too but for fashion how
does this freaky Dark Energy translate
well a fashion Scorpio makes use of a
resource completely unique to each
individual and that is their body I mean
in a way we all inadvertently
incorporate our body into our fits cuz
like how are how cuz how can you not but
the difference is fashion Scorpios
really utilize this as a visual asset
like whether you're tall fit sexy or if
you just have like a weird build you
know like some people just have weird
builds and it's like man clothes look
cool on them cuz they they got some
crazy build even just face card you know
like if you're handsome or beautiful or
cute or pretty or or again if you got
some weird build like they fashion
Scorpios will find a way to capitalize
on this as you should though you should
because if I was 63 wearing an extra
small people would not hear the end of
it all you small T-shirt ass Rick Owens
mesh top lowrise pants people we know
exactly what you're doing but I just
feel like we could all use a little
fashion Scorpio in our fashion diet
shout out all the weird builds next we
got Sagittarius November 23rd to
December 21 Sagittarius people are very
curious extroverted optimistic
passionate just always on a quest to
learn more and experience more just very
outgoing likable people they're so cool
you know they're so Sagittarius people
are so cool man you see this is what
they think you know they're in their own
bubble but like just let them have them
just let them have their fun but see
like the astrological Sagittarius I feel
like the fashion Sagittarius is very
similar in that key curiosity fashion is
kind of inherently based in curiosity
and these guys are always trying new
stuff whether it be buying new things or
just experimenting with different style
techniques fashion Sagittarius make it
very obvious that style is a major part
of their life and I feel like we all
want to do that but these guys like do
it without saying it and when you just
look at someone's fit and you can tell
like oh man like you probably talk about
this you know like you probably bring up
clothes in conversation and you can tell
they consider it to be a major part of
their personality and identity and it's
cool but sometimes even with all the
passion and how invested you are and the
hours put in and
how like sometimes the fits just still
kind of suck though and it's it's
embarrassing a little bit but you you
know what I mean like I don't know like
there are people where I can tell you
know a lot why isn't it translating I
don't know I maybe I'm just I don't know
don't say me don't comment this is
literally you because I don't have a
passion for it I'm in here because I
didn't do good in school that's the
difference so the next guy is supposed
to be the Capricorn but I'm going to do
that last because I'm a Capricorn and
I'm saving the best for last so instead
we're doing Aquarius January 21 to
February 19 Aquarius are very clever
Innovative humanitarian stubborn and
infamously The Stereotype aquariuses are
very emotional in emotional parenthesis
derogatory but I feel like the main
driving Factor behind the fashion
Aquarius is this interesting
humanitarian quality a fashion Aquarius
is probably going to be the person
pushing for sustainability in both the
environment and the Arts it's just the
kind of person that almost exclusively
shops vintage up Cycles I feel like and
also this is just a little bit of this
is in all of us I feel like we're going
to be stubborn and emotional parenthesis
derogatory about anything it should be a
topic like this that benefits everyone
sustainability and fashion is very valid
next we got Pisces who knows about these
guys name on Pisces you know what I mean
Our Little Fish Friends February 20 to
March 20 straight up Pisces are weird
they'll be the first to tell you that
they take pride in that Pisces are weird
and and naturally fashion Pisces you
guys are weird here a couple images you
know what I mean you guys are just
weird hey own that though you
should own that at least your
personality isn't
like up cycling or something okay lastly
obviously we got the
goat December 22nd to January 20
Capricorns are the hardest workers of
the zodiac and love nothing more than
getting ahead in life they are ambitious
determined materialistic and and strong
oo that's good that's a good one man hey
I didn't write that Cosmo did this is I
didn't make this up and it's got to be
real if it's on the internet I mean and
I guess obviously the fashion Capricorn
you see where this is going fashion
Capricorn you are
probably reselling like fashion
caps are most definitely thinking of
pieces as assets 1,000% whether you work
in the business of fashion actually or
if you're just a Grail demon this is
your part in the game even people that
have a fashion brand like you need some
sort of business acument like you're
thinking about money even if it's not
about the money you have to think about
money to participate in the business of
fashion fashion Capricorn I'll admit it
even being a natural born Capricorn
running an online fashion business is
something that I had to learn you have
to go out of your way for this and
that's why I will forever be grateful to
the sponsor of this video Squarespace
for making everything things so easy to
learn and making everything seem
possible Squarespace is the best place
to make a website for absolutely
anything especially when starting off
man when I started all I did was just I
just browsed the selection of hundreds
of designer award-winning templates from
here picked one and got started from
there and four years into using them
they just keep getting better now they
have this website building system called
fluid engine which essentially puts
everything on a grid and then you can
just go in and edit different pieces of
your website just making it really easy
to get started but like I said earlier
about being a true natural born material
boy Capricorn my favorite part about
Squarespace is how easy it was to set up
e-commerce on the website it took
minutes to get everything from checkout
to shipping setup they have a bunch of
third party plugins just ready to
integrate on the website builder anyways
and it's simple as that I've been using
it for 4 years I've never had an issue
and you two can go try it out now at
Squarespace /f Frugal athetic where you
will get a free trial of the website
builder and when you want to place an
order for a website or domain you will
get 10% off at squarespace.com Frugal
athetic instant results squarespace.com
Frugal athetic thank you to Squarespace
for sponsoring the official fashion
zodiac calendar if I'm being real I just
want to see you guys fight in the
comments that's it spoiler alert they
all suck
