hi guys welcome or welcome back to my
channel I'm
[Music]
Delaney and today's video is a fun one
we're going to be diving in And
discussing 2024 Trend predictions and I
think that this is such a fun video to
kind of get inspired look forward to the
future and just get a little bit jazzed
up in January because I feel like
January is literally the most boring
time of year and the only fun part of it
is New Year's and then after that I'm
just like okay what now so getting
inspired for the upcoming year and
looking ahead is one thing I can do to
fill my time in January so I'll try to
put up some inspo pictures while I go
through the trends and also the research
that I did for this video was on a
couple different publication so I looked
at like the Pinterest Trend report the
Instagram Trend report the New York
Times style magazine I maybe read
something in Vogue I can't remember and
then just things that I've seen in real
life things that I've personally been
inspired by I also watched a couple of
YouTube videos so there's tons of stuff
out there and I just think that it's
really fun and interesting to kind of
look into and like read up on or listen
up on on like a podcast or YouTube video
or something and just get the wheels
turning going into the new year so
that's kind of like the references and
the background of this and as always
this is just like my opinion it's just
what I'm thinking there's no like right
or wrong and it's just like fun fun
little thing so let's get into the
trends okay so the first thing that I
want to talk about I actually read about
in The New York Times style magazine and
it's something that I've personally been
really really drawn to lately as well
and the overarching theme of that is
just kind of this like 80s style and
then a couple of like terms that I wrote
down for that was structure in shape and
material so more substantial materials
like thick sturdier materials and ALS
also structure being like really sharp
angles and edges of things not like
really rounded out things but more harsh
and I just did that because I was
thinking of like shoulder pads which is
very 80s and something that I have been
so drawn to we just did a trip in London
and I brought two tops that have
shoulder pads in them and I love the
look of it also one of the coats that I
wore most of the time has the shoulder
pads in it as well and I think that it's
just a really satisfying structure also
I think for like proportions and body
type the shoulder pads might be
something kind of flattering for me so
that might be partially why I'm drawn to
it but I just think that it's a really
cool kind of edgy look as well and I
love the nod to the 80s because I think
the 80s is so sick like I love the
hairstyles from the'80s I also love 80s
music there's so many icons from that
era and I think leaning into that era as
far as fashion goes as well is just
really really fun and it's going to be
big going into 24 another thing that
kind of like nods to that is power suits
obviously just like Blazers dad coats or
dad Blazers and I think that these look
so sick and they're really great for
street style they're really great for
going out for like a date night or out
with your friends or something like that
and I just think that they're really
cool I also love a big shoulder pad
blazer with like a little waist belt
cinching in the waist and just creating
this really nice shape so I love just
like the structures and the shapes of
this trend I guess and I think there's
tons of different ways that you can
style this going into 2024 whether it be
like in coats or Blazers as I mentioned
or on like bodysuits or tops with the
shoulder pads and maybe just like 80s
style hair or makeup or just listen to
some 80s songs cuz they're literally the
best okay the next one is hot pants or
like micro shorts or the no pants Trend
there's a bunch of different ways to
call this trend basically but this is
something that I also have been loving
I've actually had this pair of hot pants
from White Fox for years and I've been
styling them for a while because I just
find them to be so flattering again I
think like proportionally maybe they're
good for me they make me feel taller
because they're like so micro I don't
know what it is but I've just loved
those for a while and I have seen them
everywhere and I've gotten so much more
styling inspo for them and again
recently on our trip to London I brought
that pair of shorts and I actually wore
them more than anything else because
they were just so Chic and cool and they
went with a bunch of different things so
I wore them out to dinners a lot I also
wore them ice skating you can kind of
dress them up or dress them down and I
just think they're so freaking cool I
really love them in the colder months
with like a pair of tights but I also
love them in the summer months or like
warmer months as well so you can style
them differently depending on the season
but I just think that they're really
cool they're fashion forward and they
look really good with like a bodysuit I
think with a belt cinching and again you
can also do like like a Blazer over top
for a little bit of the jux deposition
of something big and oversized with like
the little tiny shorts you can do like a
sweater I think is really cute I wore
them with these like bright red tights
in London as well which is really fun
for kind of like a pop and I'm just
totally here for the trend I get that
it's maybe not the most wearable Trend
or the most everyday Trend but if you're
into that and you want to lean into it I
think that most people can pull it off I
mean I think anyone can pull anything
off to be fair as long as they want to
so what I'm saying is I think most
people could have fun with this trend
because I think even though it's a bit
out there I don't think it's too crazy
that no one should do it but you know to
each their own if you're not into the
hot pants skip them and just wear
regular pants okay another thing that I
read up on the Instagram Trend report
actually which was kind of a report on
jenz in particular which I I don't know
maybe just because they're like the
generation right now leading the trends
I guess that's why I focused on that or
I just ended up randomly on some genen Z
specific article which is also fine
because like I said jenzy is kind of
telling us what is cool right now
something that's going to be really big
from that report anyways and also I mean
I've seen it everywhere and I think that
it's definitely true is just shopping
like secondhand vintage things more
sustainable pieces which is really great
and I think like thrifting in general
obviously L I think with social media
this culture of thrifting has become
even more popular because it's really
fun content to digest and get inspired
and it's a great way for people to go
and find more affordable things they're
more sustainable and it's just really
fun so for me in particular I love
thrifting like more statement pieces so
a lot of the jackets that I have are
thrifted because I think that those kind
of just like make an outfit Sports Wear
jackets I love thrifting those or like a
thrifted Blazer or leather jacket is
amazing I think these are really good
pieces to like add into your wardrobe
that are going to be super unique but
also like denim kind of more basic
pieces like that shoes these are all
great things to Thrift and obviously
vintage or thrifted pieces kind of
covers the whole board so this is less
specific of a trend but something that
is you know just becoming more and more
popular which is great okay the next
Trend prediction for 2024 is something I
think on the Instagram um article again
it was specifically worded this way but
in general a lot of the things that I
researched kind of fit into this
umbrella term and that is wearing
clothes in unexpected ways so again this
is like very genz I think but it's just
kind of being more creative and more out
there and more daring with your clothes
and what I mean when I say wearing
clothes in a bold way but still in an
unexpected way more or so is less like
just wearing really bright colors or
really bold clothing and instead just
like wearing normal clothes maybe but in
strange ways I guess you could say so
for example like the dress over jeans or
the skirt over pants or whatever you
want to call it that style which has
been done before I think like the early
2000s that was a big thing as well but
it's that sort of mindset of just
styling your clothes in a stranger way
rather than just wearing like really
bold items of clothing I guess so I
think the average person again is not
going to just want to wear like a dress
over their pants because it just feels
so foreign and so out there even for me
I like really like exploring fashion and
experimenting with it but that's just
like something that doesn't I mean I'm
not saying I won't go there but it's
just not something that I gravitate
towards but I think that there's ways
that that can be a little bit less
intensified I guess like wearing a long
like I have a couple shirts that are
like long on the sides but shorter on
the front so it kind of like creates a
little bit of that like dress type feel
but it's not truly a dress over the
jeans and just ways to kind of lean into
it like that I also saw the apron Trend
mentioned a lot uh in the YouTube videos
that I watch so that's kind of like it
looks a bit like the skirt over pants
but it's less literal of that I guess
and it's kind of just like a thicker
belt on pants I'll try to find photos
and show you guys but that sort of
styling I think is an example of that
and just all the hacks that we see on
social media of like tying your shirt in
a different way or just wearing clothes
in unexpected ways it's kind of hard to
articulate and think of that many
examples for but I think you guys get
the point the next one is a color Trend
and I feel like it's going to be no
surprise to anyone cuz we've literally
seen it absolutely everywhere and I feel
like of all the years that I've been
doing fashion YouTube videos and
covering things like this there has
never been a stronger color of the year
or just like true color Trend and so
without further Ado the color is red
it's literally everywhere and everyone's
obsessed with it and that is predicted
to stick around in 2024 as far as like
the runways go and the designers and
everything I saw one video I can't
remember the Creator but she was talking
about the red turning into a bit more of
like a cherry red so like a dark cherry
red red so a little bit more muted and a
little bit more understated than that
like true bright bright red but still
just like red is Powerhouse dominating
and I am one with the people on this I
think red is so good it is such a fun
color as like a pop a statement
everything and anything can be in red
right now and it can do no wrong so that
is predicted to stick around and we like
that I have a pair of red boots boots
that are my absolute fave for just kind
of like a pop and some fun in an outfit
also like a red jacket or a red purse
amazing a red dress a red sweater just
the red tights just just go and have fun
with red in 2024 just at least a little
bit okay because she is that girl the
next Trend I also saw mentioned a lot of
times and all of us feel the same way I
think so the trend is skinny jeans and
we all have strong feelings towards
skinny jeans so so skinny jeans have
slowly been creeping back into
popularity I feel like and over the past
couple of years I've seen I've talked
about them in some Trend videos I've
seen them talked about a lot and I think
that they're just slowly but surely
still making their way to a little bit
more acceptance and wearability maybe so
I have been leaning into them and liking
them with like the boots over top and a
blazer kind of that way and also a lot
of the things that I read or watched
mentioned that it doesn't have to be
like the same skinny jeans that we were
thinking of 10 years ago they're not
going to be styled the same way and
they're also not going to be like
looking or made the same way and it
could just be like a straighter like
skinnier more tapered leg not like the
true kind of like jegging feel that we
used to do back in the day so I
definitely see this happening I see
myself gravitating towards some more
tapered fitted legs and jeans as well so
it's definitely coming it will be
interesting to see exactly where and how
it lands but just know that skinny jeans
is Somewhere Out There creeping its way
back in somehow also for anyone who has
worn skinny jeans for all the time
that's okay too this is more just based
on like Trends and stuff so obviously
nobody has to follow Trends and nobody
even has to care about them and there's
nothing wrong with going against the
trends or wearing things that you you
like that are not considered trendy so
no shame to anyone who has always loved
skinny jeans by the way okay and then
the last one that I want to talk about
is kind of aine also waist cinching this
sort of mod 60s OE I would say so this
is something that I have been loving
over the past couple of months and
particularly the brand that I find
myself gravitating towards for this and
purchasing from for this style
repeatedly is Reformation so I have a
few different things from them that kind
of fit this bill and also like a boat
neck style top or dress it all kind of
fits into the same idea and vision that
I've been seeing and gravitating towards
so it's just a lot of that kind of
straight A-line shape and structure not
structure just like shape and lines on
things so like the boat neck just
creating like a nice straight line
across it's very mod it's very chic it's
very simplistic um like I said it's very
like 60s is to me and also like A-line
dresses just with a little bit of a
flare at the bottom not like a super big
one but just a nice it's just creating
this nice these nice lines and a couple
of the tops that I've gotten from
Reformation that fit this are like a
vest style where it has like a little
peplum almost cinched in at the waist
but it's still very like angular and
A-line is so hopefully the visuals give
you guys a good idea of what I'm talking
about I saw Laney ozar talk about this
in her Trend video and the like
Silhouettes and shapes that she used
were a little bit different than the
ones that I've been like seeing and
gravitating towards myself hers were a
little bit more Shifty and like flowy
and the ones that I'm thinking of are a
little bit more fitted like go- go
dancer Vibes I guess there's this skirt
that I have from abomi it's like the
Men's Wear skirt or something like that
and it really fits that Vibe as well
it's just these nice like you know just
like an EG a line is shape it's very
very sixy is very mod and I'm just
loving that and I'm seeing a ton of it
and I'm wearing a ton of it so I think
that's going to be big going into 2024
and that's it for today's video I hope
you guys enjoyed this let me know if
you'd want to see a video styling these
Trends or just any other fashion Friday
videos that you guys want to see in the
new year as always thank you guys so
much for being here I appreciate you
more than you know and thanks for
watching
