this video on NPCs is sponsored by
squarespace.com NPC stands for
non-player character originating in
video games it was a term used to label
the characters in the game that the
player could not control and as
technology has evolved NPCs have gone
really a lot of detail as you can see
here look at this you're going to get
really close to your screen to see the
details on this one ready are you close
to your screen all right now NPCs look
like this
[Music]
we love this term we love calling people
NPCs kind of implying we're the main
character too from using it to describe
people that listen to Drake or using it
to describe people that really like
Marvel movies to using it as a label for
people that live right here these guys
you people this area and I know this is
a lot of space and it's probably a lot
of people here maybe I don't know I
don't think anyone knows really but
there's no way that God coded the main
character of the game to take place here
I'm sorry that's asking too much that's
like expecting the main boss fight of a
video game to take place in the loading
screen like when Jesus comes back
there's no way he spawns in Oklahoma but
now the term has kind of expanded past
its literal meaning and is now used as a
word to just kind of describe anything
mundane or lacking in personality just
like the NPC models in a video game
fashion NPCs also look like the devs did
not spend any time and just wanted to
meet the bare minimum and feel some
space like we probably all share this
memory remember the crowd in the Madden
games and the 2K Games swear to God I
saw a couple of y'all in there I
remember faces I can also spot a fog
Essentials where from mile away but this
is completely normal in fact it's
actually necessary we need fashion NPCs
the same way that games need filler in
the audience bro I'm not gonna draw
every single person as an individually
unique model we he can't all be players
if everyone's the main character then no
one's the main character also you can't
be the main character in Panda dunks I'm
sorry I don't know who told you that
also I don't care that you and your
girlfriend are matching
that's not that's not unique that's just
the devs getting lazy and cloning your
model and with the interest of casually
being into fashion at an all-time high
as you can see here we are also seeing
the rise of fashion NPCs I would like to
pre-face this by saying that I'm aware
that this does not help my case of the
whole bro we can't wear around you
I know this is just a big step in my
quest of becoming a fashion hater
completionist there's a million fashion
hobbyists and fashion historians but in
no time I'll be the rank one fashion
hater alright so what specifically makes
a fashion NPC what does that even mean
your first thought is probably someone
who doesn't have any interest in fashion
in general and just kind of just wears
clothes because it's illegal not to and
you would be right this is the most
common and obvious case of a fashion NPC
but you'll be surprised at how much
deeper it gets my theory is that a
fashion NPC is spawned when something
that was otherwise exclusive becomes
readily available to the masses and then
even when that Evolution happens people
are still left with the mentality of I
have something that you want but you
can't have and for most that suffices
their wants and needs when it comes to
Fashion
NPC mentality in business and Tech
there's a theory called the diffusion of
Innovations and there are five major
groups of people in this the innovators
the early adopters the Early majority
the late majority and the laggards I
feel like in terms are pretty
self-explanatory and easily translate
into fashion with the innovators and
early adopters being like your style
icons or your trendsetters but it's only
about 15 percent of people here you
can't all be here and Transtar you're
not this is where everyone wants to be
and where everyone thinks they are but
you're not
[Music]
anyways the NPC's Fallen this section
right here the back 50 the late adopters
and the laggards and like I was saying
about NPC spawning when scarcity becomes
available in the timeline of a trend
this is where it usually happens too
most Prime examples we have here are the
fog Essentials and the panda dunks this
is the meme that I love beating into the
damn ground like a dead horse and
because of this reason it's the perfect
example of the diffusion of Innovations
in fashion at least contemporarily
starting with fog Essentials fear of God
used to be the height of the fashion
Zeitgeist in like 2015 and 2016.
everyone wanted in on this but the
barrier for entry was really stiff first
of all everything was stupid expensive
especially for the time where people
weren't as ambitious with their fashion
spendings as they are now and even if
you did have the budget or if your
parents had the budget
everything was sold out remember zipper
pants gate I've never seen more people
on Reddit But as time went on pieces
became more and more available and then
with the Genesis of the essentials line
the masses now had access to what was
otherwise exclusive and like I said
earlier about this being the fashion NPC
objective from the start they all
settled here there's no need to innovate
when I already feel like I'm better than
you in my essentials and this exact
thing went for panda dunks everyone
wanted dunks nobody could get them Panda
dunks came out they became super
available everywhere and also so
happened to be the easiest colorway to
style ever of all time dunks still kind
of feel exclusive now I got Panda dunks
I'm the main character I'm the main
character no I'm the main character no
I'm the real Buzz Lightyear no I'm the
real Buzz Lightyear no I'm the real Buzz
Lightyear this is just the first level
though this is just the base model of
which fashion NPCs can build on and now
we're starting to see the evolution of
fashion NPC across all genres of fashion
and not just your basic Mall core or
like minimalism it goes deeper Rick
Owens a brand that you think to be too
exclusive or out there to outfit NPCs
but you will be surprised Rick NPCs have
been spotted all over the globe usually
identified with their strict adherence
to the basics like Ramones or GEOS or
just the essentials from the Dark Shadow
line really the average Rick NPC sticks
hard to the path of least resistance
it's just just the easiest fit type that
you can make in this aesthetic and you
can make the argument that oh they're
not NPCs because they had enough
substance to even get themselves to
styling Rick as says the guy typing this
wearing a mountain hoodie right now how
could I be an NPC I'm wearing Ramones
Ramones are the panda dunks of Rick
hot take look at this outfit right here
the point I'm making is that could be
anyone surprise it's me the Rick MPC is
just an NPC in a cool husk like here are
three Rick NPCs right here these types
of outfits and now here are three Rick
outfits with some personality with some
individuality with some plot Graphics
don't make the game
story does even Balenciaga a brand where
you think gets exclusivity and its
Prestige can clinch its release from the
NPC title the people that follow this
brand are mostly NPCs I just gotta get
clothes that are so big that they can
compensate for my lack of creativity
here if my clothes are massive
who would have thought of that what if
my hoodie was just so big what if my
hoodie was just so big put me in a
boardroom right now and make the guys
around me saying make the hoodies big
and make the shoes big what if we tried
to incorporate personality and then now
throw me out of the boardroom I can buy
my personality in the shape of a rainbow
Croc again like I said there are so many
cool things that you can do with a style
opportunity that wild pieces like this
present yet we settle for mannequin fits
again Graphics don't make the game now
with these five bits right here have in
common is an obvious visually I mean
come on how is this how are these two
fits even remotely related but the
common traits shared here is that they
are all formulaic there is no unique fit
language which brings us into the last
section of this video which is fit
language so when you think of fit
language right you probably default to
the obvious ones like Kerwin Frost
bloody o wisdom Tyrone you know the
usual that are just so out there they're
just kind of in their own lane this girl
right here hamster stance is insane when
it comes to identifiability her
proportions and compositions can be
spotted even if I was just squint up my
screen like this like if I was like I
don't even know what I'm looking at but
I know that's her like look at this like
you can tell that's her it's just a
prime example of maximizing style
opportunity on all accounts but fit
language doesn't always have to be this
demonstrative and obscure a lot of the
times it's very oblique and subtle
someone who I think has very clear fit
language despite being very
aesthetically simple is Daniel Simmons
taking a more minimal approach I feel
like the vibe he gives off is there's
always that one guy that's like that's
just the big jacket I can do that
congratulations you added nothing to the
conversation but you kind of are right
and that's what's kind of cool about it
it's nothing crazy he had a very clear
fit language and also fit language
doesn't necessarily have to lead an
aesthetic meta either like these two
might seem like they're kind of at the
top of their influence in their own
respective genres but let me show you
something real quick let me cook just
let me cook hold up all right inside you
there are two hassans one of these is
known for his polarizing political
opinions massive loyal online audience
and an avid affinity for fashion
the other one's a twitch streamer
I can already see the kecks
see what I mean massive loyal audience I
see you chat but you know what the
difference between these two hassans is
here's probably the hottest take of the
year and maybe one of my worst but I
also stand by it one of these hassans
has a definitive fit language and it's
probably not the one wearing the h m
bomber Hassan is a good example of
somebody with definitive fit language
you hate to say it but you love
to see it and you also hate to
 see it you probably think I'm
trolling but like I said let me cook
let me cook take a look at this Wendy's
sampler of Hassan fits I got here even
though some of these might be
questionable some of these might even be
controversial hell some of these might
not even be that good some of them might
even be bad
how most of them might even be bad
a lot of them might even be bad you know
what maybe even all of them might be bad
they might even be disgusting and when I
look at them I get a bad taste in my
mouth and I get nauseous I want to take
a nap but regardless of your opinion on
these fits there is a very unique and
defined aesthetic that most people
actively hating in fog Essentials and
panadunks will never fully get a grasp
of now these fists right here these guys
are probably getting overtime pay being
mid we need to call for the unionization
of mid if you guys are going to be doing
this full-time you might as well get
benefits with paid leave and at the end
of the day though what you find
appealing is subjective this all comes
back down to this but it's how you
incorporate those elements is what
separates you from the crowd honestly
being a fashion NPC is fine especially
if it's not your goal to dress further
than what the trends Supply but if you
want to feel like the main character you
gotta give us a reason why you deserve
some space in the plot and this same
thing goes for your online presence like
a website give me a reason to take you
seriously and to do this I want to thank
the sponsor of this video Squarespace I
made my entire brand website on
Squarespace watch I'll show you
Squarespace is the best place to make a
website for absolutely anything they got
over hundreds of award-winning designer
templates so that you can make a website
look exactly how you want it without any
knowledge of web design like me like I
said I made my entire brand website
using Squarespace and I had a great time
making it look as stupid as possible
tens if not hundreds of thousands of
people are probably gonna end up here
maybe if optimistically in my dreams and
if I'm confident enough to start that
Journey with a Squarespace template then
you have no excuse even when it came to
everything Commerce related Squarespace
had everything I needed in-house so it
only took five minutes to set up the
whole store so if you want to try our
handy making website or for anything go
to squarespace.com Frugal aesthetic now
and you'll get a free trial of the
website builder so you can see how easy
it is and how cool it is and if you want
to publish your website site you'll get
10 off your first order again
squarespace.com Frugal aesthetic if you
want to see it in action right now you
can go to raised Dot online go ahead and
buy yourself a painstation tea while
you're there if there are any left
follow me on everything painstation
teaser out now at raise Dot online
underscore and then 17 underscores on
Instagram thank you for tuning in to the
channel and for staying here it's been a
wild ride and happy new year God crazy
Year I'll see you in 2023 baby that's
gonna be seven years of doing this I'm
almost there 100 fashion hater
completionist coming soon
buy yourself a painstation tea bro
