what's good today I'm going to recreate
some of my old outfits and make them
better how am I gonna do that well I'm
gonna walk you through the whole process
and hopefully this video can help you
learn how to upgrade your outfits as
well fashion is in the details and there
are a few small but intentional choices
that you can make to elevate your daily
style and make a huge impact on your
overall look if this video helps you in
any way be sure to give it a like And
subscribe if you haven't already
now let's get into it
if you look at all of these older
outfits they all kind of have something
in common what is that well one of the
biggest fashion mistakes that I made in
the past is not understanding fit and
proportion and that's mainly because I
didn't understand my body now let me
walk you through what I mean by this
when I used to gather outfit inspiration
from Pinterest I thought that I could
just use any sweater or any coat as long
as it was similar I also thought well
this girl is skinny and I'm skinny too
so it'll look the same on me
there's two gigantic mistakes that I
made here the first mistake I made is
not understanding fit the material
stiffness and cut of a garment is what
determines the overall look of a piece
for example a lightweight Blazer is
going to have a very different look from
a wool blazer because the stiffness of
the wool creates a more structured look
so if you see a Pinterest girly wearing
thick plaid pants and you try to
recreate the outfit with lightweight
plaid pants you might think oh well
she's wearing plaid pants I have plaid
pants so it should work out but you're
going to get a very different outfit
simply because of the weight and
structure of the fabric the second
mistake I made is not understanding
proportion and a lot of that had to do
with the fact that I didn't understand
my body now I used to think that I had
super broad shoulders because when you
objectively look at the shape of my body
my shoulders are wider than my hips so I
was like yeah I have broad shoulders but
then I started coming across pictures of
celebrities that actually had broad
shoulders and I thought to myself
hmm maybe my shoulders aren't as broad
as I thought they were and so I pondered
on this for a very long time until I had
an epiphany and came to the realization
that it's not that my shoulders are
broad it's that my hips are really
narrow this piece of information was
invaluable to me because I was able to
learn that different types of fabrics
Styles and cuts will fall on my body
differently than someone with wider
shoulders or wider hips another huge
piece of information that I learned
about my body is that I have really long
legs in comparison to my torso now some
people have long legs and a short torso
some people have a long torso and short
legs and some people are more balanced
regardless clothing is going to look
different on different proportions if
you're going to recreate an outfit that
you see someone else wearing you need to
consider their proportions as well as
your own for example someone with a
longer torso and wider hips looks very
different for me even if we're wearing a
similar outfit
[Music]
now these two things are kind of why I'm
reluctant to agree with that hole is
this a good outfit or is she just skinny
sort of thing because look I see skinny
people with terrible outfits all the
time I mean look at these
foreign
is that celebrities have stylists and
stylists understand everything that I
just talked about they understand fit
and proportions and the way different
Fabrics drape around different body
types celebrities pay good money to look
good everyone has the ability to be
stylish you do not need to be skinny to
have good outfits you just need to
understand your proportions and the fit
and cut of the clothing that you're
buying make your closet work for you not
the other way around now that we've got
all that covered let's put all that
knowledge into practice and recreate
some of my old outfits together
thank you
okay so I can immediately identify why
this outfit doesn't work the biggest one
is that these jeans have way too short
of an inseam remember how I said I have
long legs and a short torso well these
jeans are too short on me another thing
I can identify is that the pant legs
kind of taper inwards because I have
narrow hips and wider shoulders these
tapered pants bring attention to the
fact that I have very narrow hips and
this makes the outfit look very
imbalanced let's swap out these jeans
with these these jeans are longer which
is much more suitable for the length of
my legs and they are slightly flared
which balances out my narrow hips having
black on top and white on the bottom is
way too much contrast for this outfit
especially because my body doesn't have
balance proportions so let's switch out
this black shirt with this cropped white
one this is much more balanced right
look at how big of a difference being
more intentional makes
all right
three key issues with this one number
one these are the same jeans that I was
wearing in the first outfit they're too
short number two tapered legged pants
look better with a more narrow shoe
These Boots are too chunky for these
jeans creating an imbalance
number three it's kind of hard to tell
with this lighting but this Blazer is
quite fit to the body yet the shirt that
I'm wearing underneath is pretty loose
this makes the shirt look super wrinkled
because there's too much fabric that
isn't accommodated by the fit of the
Blazer and it was honestly quite
uncomfortable to wear because of that so
let's fix this let's switch out the
jeans with the same pair from outfit one
now personally when I wear pants and a
shirt I like to show skin somewhere to
break up that kind of solidness of an
outfit and add more interest otherwise
it can feel a bit overwhelming and
uncomfortable like I'm drowning in
clothing in the first outfit I achieved
this with a cropped t-shirt but in this
outfit I'm going to do this with a
v-neck top well this is actually a
bodysuit but you know the Vibes boom
this is already looking way more
balanced I'm going to keep the same
color scheme here so I'm gonna wear
these black booties as you can see they
are much more narrow of a silhouette
than the other boots and they're also a
lot point tier which in my opinion looks
more striking and adds more visual
interest so I'm gonna put these on in
the original outfit you can see that the
Blazer is quite snug this outfit is
pretty casual and I want to feel
comfortable in this outfit so I'm going
to switch out that blazer for this one
that is way looser of a fit also I found
that double-breasted Blazers look kind
of weird on me anyway I think it's
because I have a narrow body so it's too
much fabric for me and it makes me feel
and look like I'm drowning with that
being said if you are trying to recreate
someone's outfit consider the fit of the
clothes that the person is wearing
[Music]
okay
there's a lot going on here I don't know
what I was thinking when I put this
outfit together like what
was that about
so let's fix it now I still have this
shirt but here's why I don't really wear
it these days this shirt is very thin
and flimsy because of this it wrinkles
very easily and it clings to my body in
very unflattering ways I mean look at
the way it's clinging to my bust area
it's super uncomfortable when you have
to constantly mess around with your
clothing throughout the day personally I
feel way more confident in my outfit
when I know that it looks good no matter
how it's laying on my body with this
shirt I am constantly worried about it
clinging in unflattering ways and I'm
always messing with it on the other hand
let's take a look at this graphic tee
the fabric is quite thicker and there's
a little bit more structure in the
shoulders so it doesn't cling to my body
it falls on it like a hanger this is a
much more comfortable and flattering
type of graphic tee for me anyway now
keep in mind that these are both men's
shirts and they're both the same size
the key difference here is the fabric
weight or density one clings and one
Falls let's go with the more flattering
option
these pants that I'm wearing in the
older outfit were trousers like a
business casual trouser and I love
trousers I wear them when I want to be
put together and I wear them even when
I'm styling a streetwear outfit I just
love the juxtaposition I love trousers
the problem here is that these are not
the trousers for me they're too short
and once again they are tapered now I
don't know why I had so many short
tapered pants maybe it was the trend at
the time but it was not the trend for me
that's why it's so important to
understand your body and have a personal
style because if you just follow Trend
after Trend they might not work for you
they might not look good you might not
be comfortable and it'll be a complete
waste of money but anyway back to the
pants we're gonna swap these out for
these trousers wow what a difference
they're a much better length and again
they slightly flare out to create more
balance plus these are pleated and
because I have narrow hips this little
pleat detail adds a little more volume
to my hip area making me look more
balanced this color palette is all over
the place I'm actually going to keep the
red shoes for a pop of color but we're
gonna switch out this jacket for a black
one because look that just makes more
sense
now I was probably wearing that jacket
because it was a little cold outside so
I'm gonna match the energy here and put
on this lightweight Puffer
boom to accessorize I'm gonna wear this
red bag so that your eyes go across the
outfit without the bag your eyes go
straight to the shoes you know what I'm
saying so matching that bag with the
shoes makes your eyes see the outfit as
a whole it goes from top to Middle to
bottom as opposed to like
just go into your shoes
whiz what a terribly proportioned outfit
wowzers two main issues with this one
one it's very top heavy I'm wearing this
furry jacket thing which is huge
compared to the bottom half of my body
which is a terrible combination for
someone who has no hips this outfit is
bringing attention to the fact that
there are no hips there the other issue
is the skinny jeans
now look if you want to keep wearing
your skinny jeans then you should do
that I personally don't think that they
are the most flattering type of pant for
a majority of body types again if you're
comfortable in your skinny jeans and you
love them then you should keep wearing
them but if you're like me and you only
ever wore skinny jeans because they were
the trend at the time and not because
they actually look good or are
comfortable to wear then consider not
wearing them anymore explore literally
any other type of pants
and yes I am talking to you fellow
Millennials once you release yourself
from the chains of skinny jeans you will
find fashion so much more exciting
because there are so many different
types of pants out there now for me the
reason why I don't like skinny jeans
especially in this picture is because I
have narrow hips and these high-waisted
skinny jeans are not doing anything for
me I also have really skinny long legs I
look like a pair of training chopsticks
so let's fix this let's make this outfit
monochromatic boom less contrast means
that my uneven proportions are less
pronounced we are also not wearing
skinny jeans anymore we got flared pants
on look lots of women don't have that
perfect hourglass shape I would actually
say that most of us don't I'm one of
them I will never look like this
but I can create an hourglass silhouette
by making my pants flare out at the
bottom to mirror my shoulder line
this looks much more balanced doesn't it
okay I don't hate this outfit I think it
looks all right
but there are a few tweaks that we can
make to make it an outfit you know what
I'm saying like right now this is this
is just I but we want a look you feel me
because right now I look like a Silicon
Valley Tech bro that just discovered
what an Overcoat is so let's start with
the sweater let's swap this out with a
crew neck sweatshirt the original
sweater was a turtleneck and I felt a
little claustrophobic in it especially
because I'm wearing so much fabric in
this outfit the lowered neckline of this
new sweater feels a lot more comfortable
for me the sweatpants in the original
outfit are tapered at the bottom and
because this sweatshirt is a little
loose fitting I don't want to be heavy
on the top and skinny on the bottom
because this is going to create that
same imbalance that I had in that last
outfit I'm gonna put on a pair of looser
fit sweatpants I think having an exposed
ankle with sweatpants can look a little
awkward so I'm going to swap out these
low top sneakers for high tops this coat
is nice
I still have it but I haven't been
wearing it as often because I recently
got another one that fits me way better
this one is longer so it harmonizes
really well with my elongated body the
other coat that I had was shorter and I
don't know how to explain it but it was
a really awkward length for how long I
am in contrast when my mom who is quite
a bit shorter than me wears a coat with
a similar length it looks more
harmonious on her in my personal opinion
if you're on the taller side or if
you're shorter but you have really
elongated limbs a longer coat looks
better
this is just my opinion this coat also
fits looser if you look at the beige
coat the shoulder lines are closer to
the collarbone whereas the darker coat
has a more elongated shoulder line and
the armpits are positioned much lower
this is great because it leaves room for
any loose fitting sweater that you wear
underneath so while the original outfit
wasn't necessarily bad it was kind of
just okay this new outfit has a lot more
flavor it's a little bit more stylish
and those small changes that we made
have a really big impact on the overall
look
so what do you guys
do you think the new outfits are an
improvement let me know which Recreation
was your favorite in the comments down
below if you learned something new in
this video please let me know in the
comments or give this video a like
subscribe if you would like to see more
videos like this and I'll catch you guys
next time
peace
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
