hi ladies I'm here to talk about seven
of the hottest fashion trends in
2024 if you're like me and you love
fashion and you're wondering like what's
going to be in style what's going to be
out of style in
2024 then you have landed in the right
spot because in today's video like I
said I'm going to be sharing seven of
the hottest and the most wearable
fashion trends this coming year I'm not
only going to be sharing the fashion
trends but I'm also going to be sharing
practical ways featured in 10 different
outfits that you can actually wear these
Trends because I don't know if you're
like me but when I see like celebrities
or you know fun fashion shows and I'm
seeing all of the fashion trends and I
think to myself huh that's a really cool
Trend but I'm not so sure I would wear
that Trend because it's just not very
wearable it's just not very practical so
these seven Trends I'm actually going to
show you how to wear them and now
remember this ladies this is a little
style tip your wardrobe robe in order
for it to be functional in order for it
to work for you you should always follow
the 8020 Rule and what that is is
basically 80% of your wardrobe should be
made up of wardrobe basics and
investment pieces and then 20% of your
wardrobe should be made up of trend
pieces so I would suggest picking one or
two of your favorite Trends and wearing
those each season and then everything
else that you wear again should
basically be investment pieces and
elevated Basics so make sure you listen
to the entire video because Trend number
seven is one I will be skipping because
guess what I didn't even have to try it
on when I saw that this was a trend I
was like no way I I hate that Trend so
I'll be anxious to see if you agree so
in the comments down below please let me
know what your favorite trend is which
one you're most excited to wear and also
let me know which one you will not be
wearing so without further ado let's get
started Trend number one is shades of
red so shades of red can certainly be
like a true red but it also can be other
shades of red such as burgundy which is
my personal favorite shade of red I love
wearing burgundy I think it's fabulous I
think it's luxurious looking it's Rich
looking and it always looks good I think
on almost any skin tone and on almost
any hair color so this is a gorgeous
burgundy velvet bouer top and yes you
can wear velvet past the holidays I love
wearing velvet in the fall and winter I
think it's a fabric that always looks
more expensive than it really is because
would you guys believe this bouer top
from Express is like $50 so trust me
when I say it looks way more expensive
than that in person I paired it over a
matching burgundy faux leather blazer
you guys this one is by good Aman the
price point is amazing in fact the black
fa leather blazer sold so well on my
blog last year so hea.com it was one of
like the top 10 best sellers so this is
absolutely a great Timeless Blazer that
will not be going out of style anytime
soon I styled it with these midrise
black jeans from Express you guys have
let me know that you do not love
high-rise denim some of you anyway and
you wanted me to feature mid-rise denim
so I'm letting you know that I'm
listening to y'all I'm here to help you
so I wanted to definitely feature
midrise denim in this video These are
amazing jeans they're like a70s flare
and70s flare jeans will definitely be
one of the biggest denim Trends in 2024
but I'm not going to talk about denim in
this video that much because I'm going
to dedicate an entire video to the denim
trends of 2024 and that will be coming
up soon so stay tuned for that but these
jeans from Express are amazing they're
very flattering because they do have the
midrise plus they have the floor
skimming hemline and I really love the
faded black wash because it's edgy it
goes with so many different things it's
also going to make you look taller and
Slimmer dark denim always does that so I
really love these under $100 jeans from
Express okay another way to wear this
red trend is with this true red cropped
Blazer this one is by ALC which is one
of my favorite designers they offer very
high quality pieces this Blazer it is
cropped which I love being petite I'm
5'4 and anything 5'4 or under by the way
is considered petite I'm always a lover
of cro jackets because that's always
going to make you look taller than you
really are this jacket is also like 30%
off right now so what a great time to
grab this beautiful designer jacket by
ALC I paired it with these Ultra
slimming Jeans by lant you guys these
are a high-waisted floor skimming
hemline they're a flare denim silhouette
which is definitely the most universally
flattering style of denim on the market
the high-waisted flare and good news it
will still be in style in 2024 so I
absolutely love these charcoal gray
flares by lean all right Trend number
two are bomber jackets so if I had to
pick one jacket that is going to be
reigning Supreme in 2024 definitely the
hottest jacket silhouette would
definitely be the bomber jacket it is
one of my favorite styles of jackets
it's very edgy but it's also Timeless
and classic so I'm really loving this
brown faux leather bomber jacket this
one is from Nordstrom I love this jacket
because it is a bit on the crop side
it's a beautiful chocolate brown color
chocolate brown is actually a current
Trend that we are seeing right now this
fall and winter so this jacket is very
on Trend I paired it over a simple gray
bodysuit and then these are some amazing
gray cuffed Jeans by a gold e they're a
bit on the baggier side I love the
cuffed him line because it allows you to
show off your favorite pair of heels and
as you'll see I just paired this look
look with these amazing classic black
suede pointy toe pumps okay Trend number
three is volumous outer wear so think
like oversized sort of on the bulky side
like faux fur jackets are a great way to
really incorporate this trend because
most faux fur jackets are very volumous
the key when wearing volumous jackets is
make sure that you keep everything else
underneath the jacket fitted so that's
exactly what I did in these two upcoming
looks this is a beautiful volumous Ivory
faux fur jacket from Express the price
point is amazing I love wearing Ivory in
the fall and winter but it also is a
beautiful shade to wear in the spring as
well um this jacket is so soft and it's
very reasonably priced I paired it over
this matching Ivory velvet uh bser
bodysuit this is a beautiful velvet
bodysuit from Express so it's like $50
so what a steal for such a great looking
underpinning I love wearing bouer tops
and faux fur I think they're a very edgy
and Tastefully sexy outfit combination
and then I went with the same washed
black midrise flares from Express I love
this washed black because again it makes
you look slimmer it makes you look
taller but they're also extremely
comfortable and by the way ladies
Express denim fits and feels like
designer denim but it does not have the
price tag of designer denim which is why
I swear by Express jeans I love them I
own several pairs personally and
honestly I reach for them a ton I went
with my new pointy toe mules these are
by Jonathan simai I love these um these
are like I said pointy toe and that's
another big Trend we are seeing is baggy
denim or flared denim with pointy toe
heels that is definitely a huge Trend
that is going to be big time in 2024 I
love the heel height this is like 2 in
so very wearable and very comfortable
now this is a volumous jacket if I've
ever seen one this this is a camel Teddy
coat by ALC you guys this coat is like
wearing a blanket because it is that
soft it's cozy it's luxurious looking
and camel is always a very Lux looking
and always a very expensive looking
color I wore this jacket yesterday over
to my brothers for Christmas day and we
had such a fabulous time I hope that you
had an amazing Christmas with your
family but I love this jacket because
it's cozy it's comfortable and it is
definitely oversized and volumous so
it's also very on Trend I paired it over
a simple white bodysuit and then these
are some good American jeans they're a
high-waisted straight leg Jean this is a
great pair of jeans to wear with ankle
booties because the circumference around
the ankle fits very nicely over ankle
booties in fact I just did a full video
on what type of denim you should be
wearing with your ankle booties and your
knee high boots so I will be sure and
Link that one down below as well okay
the next trend is metall metallics so
metallics have actually been on trend
for a while but they will still be very
on Trend in 2024 and honestly metallics
is one of my personal favorite Trends
whether it's gold or silver I love
wearing metallics I love carrying
metallics handbags I love wearing
metallic jackets even metallic pants
which brings me to this fabulous look in
an easy and effortless way to wear
metallics are these fabulous silver
pants from Express you guys they are
high-waisted they're a straight leg
silhouette the fit is impeccable I own
some faux leather metallic pants I think
two years ago I purchased them from the
revolve website and they are a premium
designer and I paid way too much money
for them these trust me they literally
fit exactly like those pants but because
they're from Express they're a fraction
of the price I paired them with a velvet
halter bodysuit this one is from Express
it's got a low cut in the front which I
absolutely love because it elongates the
top portion of my body anytime you wear
a v-neck ladies it's always going to
make you look taller and Slimmer because
it does elongate the top portion of your
body and then I just paired this
fabulous velvet top underneath that same
Ivory faux fur jacket again this is
great for the holidays but it's also a
really beautiful look that you can wear
on a date night or a girl's night out
during the winter time and early spring
while the temperatures are still cold
okay another way to wear this metallic
trend is this beautiful metallic puffer
gel jacket so this is a silver puffer
jacket it's actually reversible you guys
so you can wear it with the silver side
showing or you can turn it around and
wear the black side showing so I love
both ways but my personal favorite way
is wearing the silver metallic side
because I think it's just so fun and
fabulous and obviously it's very on
Trend I paired it with a simple long
sleeve v-neck bodysuit and then these
are some amazing mother jeans they're
called the Tom capat The Faded Black
version is sold out but they do come in
a true black which I love and this is
another denim silhouette that looks
really good with ankle booties I paired
these over my favorite lug Soul ankle
boots These Are by giovanti Rossi so
comfortable but also just very cool and
edgy okay the next fashion trend that
will be reigning Supreme in 2024 is
wearing all black and I will have to say
wearing all black is not only a trend
it's obviously a classic and
sophisticated way to dress and to be
honest anytime I see a woman walk in a
room wearing all black I just think she
looks amazing like she just looks
sophisticated and elevated and Polished
in fact I've always heard this quote
like lesson number one in fashion wear
all black so when in doubt and you're
just wondering like what should I wear
we're all black you can never go wrong
with an all Black Ensemble and good news
like I said it will be in style in
2024 so this is a beautiful black velvet
strapless jumpsuit this is from Express
so the price point is amazing you guys
the fit is impeccable it is wrinkle-free
and I love anything velvet I think it's
always luxurious looking always
expensive looking and again all black is
also very elevated and very on Trend
this time of year I paired it underneath
this fabulous black cropped faux fur
jacket this one is from revolve you guys
how fun is this jacket um this is a
great look perfect for a date night or a
girls night out and I love a jumpsuit
because it's just like one in done you
don't have to think about it and again
the price point of this jumpsuit is
amazing you guys it's under $100 so what
a steal for such an expensive looking
jumpsuit another way to wear all black
this is a bit more on the Casual side
this is a velvet top it's actually the
one I'm wearing right now it does have a
low v-neck so if you wanted to wear like
a lace bra underneath this or a chamisol
if you didn't want the v-neck to be so
low you could certainly do that I always
love wearing v-neck because again they
elongate the top portion of your body
and they allow me to show off my
favorite neck stack this top is
beautiful it is Velvet it's comfortable
I didn't tuck it in so if you're
somebody who doesn't love tucking in
your shirts this top paired beautifully
with these midrise jeans also from
Express so this is another pair of
mid-rise denim that I wanted to show
y'all these have a front seam all the
way up and down the front of the legs
this is going to elongate your legs
making you look taller and Slimmer and
then you'll see these are also a70s
flare so they have that floor skimming
hemline which is going to give yourself
the illusion of longer legs and pairing
them with a pointy toe flat or a pointy
toe heel is also going to do a great job
of elongating your legs and like I said
before this longer denim hemline with
pointy toe shoes is definitely one of
the biggest Trends we're going to be
seeing in
2024 okay the next trend is Maxi hemline
so whether that means a dress or a skirt
hem lines that are almost touching the
ground or close to the ground are going
to be a very hot fashion trend in
2024 this is one of my favorite skirts
that I own this is a faux leather skirt
it is high-waisted it has a beautiful
slit up the back this is a great
alternative if you want to dress up but
you're tired of wearing you know dresses
or you're tired of wearing denim this is
a great option so this fa leather skirt
again very on Trend because of the long
line it is faux leather so it's
wrinkle-free and the price point on this
skirt is amazing it is well under $100 I
paired it with a white bodysuit and then
this is another way to wear that
volumous outerwear Trend this is that
same Teddy coat by ALC it is short
sleeve it's very volumous very fashion
forward looking and again anytime you
wear camel and black together that's
always very expensive looking and always
very Lux looking now if you wanted to be
a bit more casual for the the Maxi
hyline way to dress you could wear this
under $100 Top Shop sweater dress this
one is from Nordstrom very reasonably
priced I love the long hemline it is so
comfortable and it's not like super
tight so if you're somebody who doesn't
love like super tight dresses this would
be a great option I love it worn alone
with these fabulous black knee high
boots but you could also wear it
underneath that amazing ALC Teddy coat
that I've been talking about throughout
this video I'm obsessed with this coat
it's honestly one of my favorite jackets
that I've added to my Adwear collection
this season okay and this brings me to
the seventh fashion trend that I will be
skipping this season and that is the
apron Trend so we are seeing like that
apron silhouette whether it's a dress or
a top and mostly dresses though with
this apron silhouette this apron type
front I don't love this I think it looks
a little too like prim and proper for me
a little too classy or classic I don't
know I just don't like it it kind of
reminds me of overalls as well and I
don't love overalls so if you do love
this trend that's okay obviously to each
his own and like I said in this video
take what you like and leave the rest
but let me know if you will also be
skipping this fashion trend because I
know that I will and then again let me
reiterate that ladies you don't have to
wear all of these Trends in fact I
suggest picking one or two or maybe
three a season and wearing those Trends
and only wear the ones that make you
feel confident and make you feel like
the best version of yourself so don't
forget to leave me a comment down below
of what your favorite Trend was and
which ones you will be skipping because
I always love hearing from you guys for
more style information you can head over
to my blog so hea.com and on Instagram
I'm so Heather blog I hope you have a
wonderful day wishing you a happy New
Year I hope your 2024 is full of lots of
love lots of blessings and lots of love
laughter so I will look forward to
seeing you in my next video
[Music]
bye-bye
