hey guys today we'll be styling
maximalist Cardigans when I saw this
first one the first thing that came to
my mind was car mechanics and how they
wear those jumpsuits so I wanted to do
like a Barbie meets car mechanic look
hide around the shoulders with my little
tool bag ah tell me I don't know how to
change an oil or a tire okay now I have
to be honest I feel like you guys know
this by now but I hate minimalism I hate
the clean girl aesthetic I think it's
the most boring thing ever like where is
the flavor you know what I'm saying your
clothes should say something about you
and they should if it's just plain
what's the fun in that look at this
cardigan are you kidding this cardigan
is me in an outfit it has candy all over
it and each one of the buttons has
something that goes with the cardigan
like this one has little golf balls on
it now I've only ever mini golfed in my
life but if I went golfing this is what
I would wear is it practical no but that
doesn't matter we look fabulous now for
this last one I wanted to go for like a
60 space Vibe because you know we went
to the moon in 1969 and it goes with my
tattoos had to do my little dance I have
the best Cardigans ever
