there are some amazing fashion trends
heading our way this year and there
really is something for everyone so if
you'd like to see the trends that are
set to be huge in 2024 then just keep
[Music]
watching hi I'm Leone and welcome to my
channel now you know I like Trend
forecasting and giving you guys a heads
up on what's going to be in fashion and
this video is no different except I'm
hoping that you will gain a little bit
of inspiration from this video to put
together some different outfits from
some of the clothes that you already own
because I'm sure you will see that some
of these Trends are probably already
hanging in your closet and I think
that's what inspires me the most about
following the trends it's not about
having to buy new and always update my
wardrobe but it's about taking
inspiration from those Trends and using
them to re look at the clothes I already
own and perhaps come up with some
different combinations so I'm hoping
that today's to's video will help you do
exactly that now this first Trend I'm
calling hooked on Classics because as
you probably already know there's been a
real return to Classic dressing real
solid basic Pieces good quality
tailoring and just simple outfits with a
little bit of a sophisticated elegant
Edge I do like Classics and I do like a
minimalistic style of dressing so if
that is you then get excited because
that's very much a happening look that's
continuing this year now as I said we
have seen this look over the past couple
of years but it's safe to say it's not
going anywhere now that doesn't mean
that there's not going to be statement
pieces and statement outfits and I will
touch on a few of them shortly but what
it does mean is classic dressing is here
to stay it is gaining momentum that
Simplicity and elegance of a classic
style of dressing is most definitely def
itely not going anywhere now this next
trend is a little bit of an interesting
one for me because it is a satin trench
coat and we've seen satin skirts and
we've also seen traditional classic
trenches over the last few seasons and
it seems as though they have kind of
morphed into a new style which is the
satin trench now I love the look of
these satin style trenches they're a
little bit more elegant they're a little
bit more formal than a classic berbery
style trench and I that's what I like
about them I also like the fact that you
can still wear them more casually and it
just elevates some of those casual
outfits they also seem to be coming in
some different colors rather than the
traditional neutrals that you would see
in a classic trench so keep an eye out
for these satin trenches and I think
that they they are as versatile as a
classic but perhaps just adding a little
bit more interest and a little bit more
fun to your outfit now another Trend
that we have seen a lot of over the last
couple of seasons are uh sets and
matching sets are not going anywhere in
fact they're almost being a little
elevated so I'm kind of calling them
statement sets so what you can expect to
see is just some added embellishment and
detailing so things like fringing
applique
diones just a little bit of elevation to
the classic sets and I think we've
mostly seen sets in basic suiting and
also kind of spring
Resort Wear style short sets but what we
are going to see in the next few months
are definitely more statement sets and
sets that are a little bit more formal
not necessarily meaning that they will
need to be worn that way but they are
just a little bit more fancy with a few
of those details making them just that
little bit more elevated and again I
love sets I love the fact that you've
got a oneandone outfit with a set if you
are running late you don't know what to
wear grab a set and you're good to go
also you get the versatility of wearing
those pieces separately and creating
other outfits so take a look out for or
keep an eye out for some of these
slightly elevated matching sets I've
also seen some beautiful denim sets too
with really interesting rivet details
and top stitching so keep an eye out for
them and at this point I'd just like to
say a very big thank you to the team at
Squarespace for sponsoring this portion
of today's episode I have a Squarespace
blog which I absolutely love and have
some exciting plans to update this year
but Squarespace in my opinion is the
easiest way to build any sort of online
presence in fact I've built a number of
websites for clients over the years and
the reason that I use Squarespace is
because it is so simple to use you don't
need to have any Tech smarts you really
don't need to know much because
everything is right there for you all in
one place there are some amazing
templates available so you can grab a
template that you like the look of and
within a very short space of time you
have a website you can also sell
products on your Squarespace website you
can email your subscribers you can do
just about anything I can also add my
YouTube videos to my Squarespace blog
which I absolutely love so I am
delighted today to say that the team at
Squarespace are offering you a 10%
discount off your first website or
domain with Squarespace all you need to
do is whip on over to squarespace.com I
got Tongue Tied then squarespace.com
take advantage of their free trial and
when you're ready to push play simply
use my unique URL which is
squarespace.com
thestyle Insider and my code which is
the style Insider and that as I said
will give you 10% off your first website
or domain with Squarespace so if you're
looking to launch yourself online this
year then I can definitely recommend
Squarespace as the easiest and most
effective way to do it now next up this
one is going to be popular with all of
those abber cromie fans out there and
that is preppy styling and we're looking
at a little bit more of a paired back
kind of preppy style so just a little
bit less predictable a little bit less
Y2K than we have seen so Mumu sort of
have reinvigorated the trend but Brands
like belly and Todds are definitely
giving a nod to the trend without taking
it too far which is something that I
always like I like giving a nod to
Trends but I don't like generally
wearing an extreme version of them so
think polo
shirts um pleated skirts I'm trying to
think sort of preppy little socks and
trainers very much a preppy loafers yeah
very much a preppy Vibe but it's as I
said a little bit paired back so far
easier to wear now I've talked in some
of my recent videos about our waists
kind of being more on show this year and
with that comes the return of of lots of
interesting belts and we're not just
seeing the sort of the classic
Slimline minimalist style belts belts
are back and in a really big way
everything from thick thick belts with
sort of chunky buckles to tie belts to
chain belts there really is something
for everyone and for me I kind of
stopped wearing belts for a while there
but I'm actually really enjoying the
idea of going back into wearing belts I
tend to find that they just add a really
interesting element to an outfit and I
love the idea that I can wear some of my
slightly oversized pieces like my
boyfriend style Blazers and belt them in
for a completely different look and feel
to an outfit so don't underestimate the
power of a good belt and how adding a
belt to an outfit and giving yourself a
waist or changing your silhouette a
little bit can just transform a outfit
and really create something pretty
magical now this year there's also going
to be a bit of a trend for what I'm
calling Opposites Attract and that is a
style of dressing that I tend to do
quite a bit anyway and it's a style that
I really like and it's basically pairing
unexpected pieces together so perhaps
teaming a sweat top with a leather
pencil skirt or even a little Chanel
esque style cardigan with a pair of
cargo style jeans just mixing kind of
high low and also unexpected pieces
together to create an interesting outfit
now don't get me wrong I love a seamless
outfit that is perhaps more predictable
but I also love when you
combine unexpected pieces together to
create an interesting outfit and it did
appear that designers were doing this
quite a bit on the runway so it's only a
matter of time until that sort of
trickles down into every day and so
expect to see that more as I said it's
music to my ears because it's a style of
dressing that I particularly like myself
and it just means that I'll get more
inspiration to look and mix and match
some of the pieces that I own a little
bit differently in ways that I hadn't
thought about before so just think about
some of these Trends as a guideline for
you to do the same now we've seen a lot
of Black coming back into fashion
because we sort of moved away from that
a little bit and the focus was more on
colors and neutrals but there has been
quite a bit of black dressing and I'm
here for it I love wearing black and all
black top to toe but what one of the
trends is that's happening this year is
white dresses and white dresses in all
sorts of
different incantations all sorts of
different variations so there are some
beautiful
transparent silky fabrics and there are
also some lovely crochet style dresses
most of the white dresses that I've seen
are Maxi they're definitely a fuller
length so I can see that this is going
to be a big Trend happening for spring
so that's probably just something to
think about in the near future that is
just around the corner and these lovely
white dresses are in my opinion they're
fresh they're feminine and just easy
breezy styling okay there's been lots
and lots of talk of lowrise and the Rune
of lowrise pants and it seems to really
have been quashed and I'm not mad about
that because wastes are rising so there
are some super highrise pants and skirts
that have been shown on the runways I
know that you'll look at some of these
images and think that these are sort of
high-end fashion but what does tend to
happen is that High Street designers
will take inspiration from what they see
on the runways and create those everyday
looks for us so there are a lot of
highrise high-waisted pants coming back
even paper bag style pants and again I'm
not mad about this look I think it can
be really flattering you do have to be
careful depending on your body type as
to how well they work for you obviously
if you are short-waisted this is going
to be a tricky Trend to wear but if
you're not then high waist in my opinion
always always gives the illusion of
longer legs it can be slimming but yeah
just proceed with caution if you tend to
be more short-waisted it can just
overwhelm you and be a really tricky
Trend to wear but High highrise wastes
are coming back one of the other trends
that I think is really interesting and
in my mind it's a return to putting the
spotlight on fashion designers and the
importance of designers especially now
that we live in a sort of an AI
dominated world but the is a real return
to sort of architectural style dressing
and only that can be created by
designers that know how fabric moves and
use their experience to create designs
that show off and make your body look
great while also playing into the beauty
of the fabric as well so there are lots
of these kind of architectur inspired
pieces that have been shown and of
course we will see more of a paired back
version of that in every day but I do
think that some of these architectural
style pieces are are great because you
can keep them and wear them for years to
come there is a New Zealand designer
called zambesi that has always created
these beautiful architectural pieces and
sometimes you're in the changing room
you don't even know where to start to to
put them on but they are pieces that are
absolutely Timeless and it doesn't
matter when you bought them you can
still pull them out and wear them many
years later and still look current and
fashion forward and that's probably the
the reason that I really do find some of
these architectural style designs
especially exciting now roses seem to
reign supreme on the runways this year
so we can expect to see roses in all
sorts of forms from the six in the city
carry bread sh Shore Style rosettes to
Rose printed fabrics and dresses with
rose
motifs I think it's a really romantic
and interesting addition to a trend I'm
not quite sure how I'm going to buy into
this trend or even if I will buy into
this trend but I love the fact that it's
it's fun it's flirty adorning our
clothes with beautiful accessories like
a rosette is something that's just a
little bit of fun I know it's frivolous
but it is just adding a bit of fun and
for me it is reminiscent of those six in
the city days and carry Bradshaw and
just having fun with fashion again so
roses are red and happening in fashion
this year so yeah keep an eye out for
them and yeah let me know in the
comments below do you like this trend do
you see yourself wearing a rosette
whether it's a sort of a corage style
rosette around your neck or your wrist
or in your hair or are you a rose type
person that you would see yourself
buying into some Rose printed Fabrics
let me know in the comments below I
could definitely dip my toe in but I'm
not quite sure where yet and this trend
is kind of in the same vein but it is a
trend for wearing feather and bird style
detailing and again this is just sort of
a fun Whimsical Trend and Feathers
obviously on the runway were shown in an
extreme fashion with kind of
feathered um Victoria Secret style Wings
on some of the shows on some of the
models but further detailing as little
accents or to highlight a hemline or to
highlight little sleeve details I think
can be really fun and soft and feminine
I think that there's probably only so
far you can go with these feathers but I
love the fact that it's also sort of
tied into a little bit of a a bird Motif
as well so I'm definitely here for that
I'm a huge fan of the local tues here in
New Zealand I'm becoming a little bit of
a bird watcher in my old age and
enjoying watching and taking notice of
some of the bird life in and around my
home but yeah just further detailing is
definitely here and expect to see more
of it as the year goes on I know we did
see a little bit of it towards the end
of last year but that is something that
is continuing on this year so if it's
your jam then start getting excited now
if there was one color that defined 2023
that would have to be Barbie pink and
I've talked in some recent videos that
Barbie pink certainly top to toe is
moving aside and it's actually being
replaced by some beautiful bright
primary colors I don't know what I was
going to say then so think Cobalt Blues
which I'm a real fan of bright sunny
yellows so those kind of really bright
primary colors are going to have a
moment in the spotlight this year so I
love teaming them back with a little bit
of white as an accent denim is a great
way to wear some of these primary colors
I've also seen them paired back quite
successfully with black I'm not a huge
fan of pairing brights and blacks but I
tend to think the black is just a little
bit heavy but let me know what you think
in the comments below I'm kind of
interested to interested to find out
whether you think that this is a good
pairing or not it's I'm on the fence
about it but I think some of these
beautiful bright primary colors are a
great addition to our color lineup this
year now you know the key trends heading
our way this year why not check out the
most wearable trends for 2024 simply
click or tap on the screen here and I
will see you
there
