looking for men's fashion inspiration
well this is Street
[Music]
styled Hi how are you I'm Robin this is
Street styled the series that sees me
out on the street to talk to some very
well-dressed guys about what they're
wearing and their grooming choices and
in this one I'm working with glasses
direct I'm going to be telling you four
of the biggest glasses trends for
2024
gusher nice to meet you hi nice to meet
you you look very cool I like this
accessorizing everything I like these
tones thank you it's very kind of you
Hey where's everything from uh a mixture
of places so this is a brand called um
the coat is acre in row it's a it's my
friend his name is DAV okay so I got
that made from him uh robot suit supply
bodana Lang Louis Vuitton and uh some
pels yeah I feel like you're a guy that
knows the sense of style
I'd like to think so I mean I like to
think so too and where did you get your
sense of style from uh probably
Instagram uh Pinterest yeah just people
watching seeing other people London's a
very fashionable City you see people
walking by all the time you get ideas
yeah it certainly is thank you very much
for stopping thank
you ollie nice to meet you how you doing
brother are you good yeah I'm good
thanks yeah you look very cool the coat
the hair everything thank you thank you
very much where's everything from this
is from a charity shop it's from um John
colier okay nice and little Charity Shop
number for Oxford Street actually it was
from originally but uh old old men's
work we sort of stuff yeah yeah yeah 20
quid not bad not bad at all creepers as
well and stuff like that rockabilly
stuff yeah yeah yeah trousers uh
trousers are from uh berska yeah yeah
yeah what did you do for a living I'm
getting kind of like Rockery artsy music
I'm a musician but um obviously living
in London it's EXP expensive so I have
to sort of work in a pub now and then
but like I'm a drummer yeah in a band
yeah where did you get your sense of
stale from is it the whole music thing
yeah pretty much music um and then I
guess even film as well like old you
know Tarantino films and stuff and uh
scori films anything that captures my
eye really that has a vibe that I'm into
but mainly musicians mainly musicians
yeah I'm sure a lot of guys will be
looking and thinking how do you get your
hair like that it's really cool it sits
it's like under done perfectly andone
very cool um lots of sea salt spray to
be honest I got very straight hair so I
literally just like wet it every day and
then put loads of sea salt spray in it
and a bit of bed hair as well sort of
thing yeah yeah hair dryer or naturally
natural yeah natural I used to use a
diffuser on a haird dryer but I can't
afford a diffuser so sort of making most
of you can actually get a cve here you
go get a sive and if you put it upside
down and get the hair dryer on it it
does the same thing it moves the air
around okay thank you I yeah I do that
here you go top tip
if you're looking for a new pair of
glasses then now could be the time and
I've got four of the biggest glasses
trends for 2024 now I'm working with
glasses direct we've got a great deal
for you all on screen all down below but
they have got over a thousand different
frames that you can select in their home
trial select up to four pairs get them
sent at home try them on at your leisure
send them back and then decide which one
if any you want to keep now those four
Trends we're talking Aviator shapes
oversized frames acetate a little like
this and hexagonal shapes now again
glasses direct all linked down below and
that exclusive offer for
you Theo nice to meet you nice to meet
you how you doing I'm good thanks Theo
the model this is how we've got this
look how did the meeting with agency go
yeah it was good it was just a double
check and plan for moving into the new
year so yeah lot lot of stuff planned
fashion style it's something that you're
used to it's something that you get paid
to wear yeah is it important to you yeah
I mean uh how you portray yourself how
you kind of present yourself either
going to meetings or meeting people down
a street like yourself um It's always
important to hold yourself to a certain
degree yeah yeah and you're doing that I
love this where's everything from uh
this is a a jack Wheels jacket uh just a
normal black tea from Asos uh Char are
from Dickies and I got some Tims on yeah
and your hair I love your hair how'd you
do this thank you ah just bit of wax
just slick it you know what I mean just
a bit of wax nothing more nothing less
skin care really clear skin it's it's
just natural yeah it is I recommend
Egyptian magic yeah Egyptian magic top
tier we know Egyptian magic yeah game
best than a game yeah I love that thank
you very much for stopping really nice
to meet
you hi nice to meet you what are your
names Andy Andy and Jamie Jamie nice to
meet I like these looks you both look
very cool thank you very much um where's
everything from so this is the tire of
the Creator golf um wolf hat and this is
a a carart it's an old recycled work
jacket I don't know where it's from but
this is a chroma wrap t-shirt they're
kind of a Latin American rap group from
America they're nice some
Budapest I don't know I thought parently
they're plumber pants so yeah but I
don't have the crack to show but uh
plumber pants I have beat up
very good Jamie what about you that is
from Zach Fox con we literally went to
last night zaro hand me- down scarf the
Niks are bought from a charity shop from
Ireland for a fivr and the jeans are
also hand me now very good well thanks
very much guys good to meet
you the whole year is ahead of us and
I'd like to travel the world with Street
styled so let me know where should we go
comment down
below
John nice to meet you nice to meet you
too we are having a twinning moment I
started walking towards John and I was
like I know that coat the Bell staff
exactly sir exactly you got a Shar by um
I actually bought this couple of weeks
ago uh I saw it really like it I tried
to do the original Pico design you know
the shorter one but I saw to myself that
um I'm looking for an over coat a long
coat and the bill sta their design is
pretty much like the additional peod and
U with some of the polo designs you see
the poku and yeah I love it on you and
it really shows how just styling it
slightly differently I'm always a pop
color guy maybe it's a bit of an
attitude thing but this you look so good
thank you very much for stopping
[Music]
John Adam nice to meet you nice to meet
you hi I love this look thank you yeah
it's quite wintry it is quite wintry I
mean it's fully that time of year yeah
where's everything from uh so this is a
uh kind of a vintage I'm not really sure
what it is kind of what would you call
this kind of jacket oh you're asking me
comment down below what would you call
this type of jacket uh I got it in
Edinburgh a vintage store really you
know Armstrong's you know Armstrong yeah
the one on Grass Market nice so yeah
it's really lovely this is a a golf golf
Brand store which is uh I went to the
opening it's literally like do you see
the yellow golf store down there I do
yeah yeah so I went on the opening day
of that store and I met do you know the
Raper TI of the Creator I so yeah I met
him outside there amazing so yeah that
was really cool these jeans are from a
charity shop in my hometown uh they were
like6 lb it's pretty good I got a True
Religion belt M which I got of Vinted I
think which is pretty good and these are
the Stussy Air Force Ones um which I got
I just got them online when they came
out and yeah they were pretty cool
where's your hometown uh Bournemouth
area good nice but you live in London
yeah I'm a student first year so what
you studying uh history history yeah I
also study history so play your cards
right you might have a YouTube channnel
in roughly probably what 15 years you
could be doing this well thank you much
for stopping
wor a little rundown of my look because
I know you've had your eyes on my jumper
I'm also enjoying it this is from auin I
actually got it in the brand new store
in Edinburgh it is a fair ale knit
shaton whe and it is very very cozy I
have got H my coat the Bell staff it's
one that I wear all through these cooler
Seasons cooler it's cold come on Robin
the trousers are from cause a little
straight leg not too tight the boots are
my grandson's I have got my guest
Collection watch the APC a street style
classic if you know you know and if you
don't know then where have you been
press subscribe right now and my hair um
we've got my product and for texture
volume spray for all the volume we're
looking a little Jimmy Neutron today
Adam behind the camera said that and
then I'm using northern lights for she
Revival matte hold good hold uh matte
finish good hold and a bit of a spray of
[Music]
hairspray Justin nice to meet you nice
to meet you Justin had a serious struck
coming down the street and I was like
hello hello but we got you yes I like
this look thank you appreciate it yeah
where's everything from I think it's
just like bits and Bobs from my wardrobe
like vintage Tri shops like this is from
Marc Jacobs Under Armour like hoodie
like yeah you just like put together
just bit and Bobs but we know we know
the exact brand of everything I like it
what's the F moment we've got poking it
is attached this is a a separate gilet
yeah really like I love like layering I
like it and what we've got Grier wise
got like shorts shorts and like thermal
leggings and like you know it's cold out
here so it is cold out here I'm like
shorts are good thermal leggings even
better I like that sort of like you
fashion guys like are so nice and
friendly but when you see you strutting
down the street it's like like go go
boom we have somewhere to be you know
we're Hustlers I'm a
hustler Craig nice to meet you hello how
you doing I'm good thanks yeah I saw
Craig coming out with a tube there I was
like I need to talk about everything
especially this this this where's this
from this is I'm entirely in H&M
actually today yeah and this is probably
20 years old and these are relatively
new but I love a bit of H&M yeah it
looks great I love when there's
something that you got from a High
Street store that you continue to wear
cuz so many people you know we talk
about fast fashion but it's only fast
fashion if you're really sort of
changing things up if you're keeping it
and it's an investment then it's great
well I think for me personally if I'm
going to shop in the High Street I'd
have to really love something to want to
buy it it's so easy isn't it because
we're bombarded by you know advertising
and images and and it's so easy to spend
money on things that you don't really
need or don't really want so I I
remember when I bought this because I
looked at it all season and then it it
was reduced in the sale so I snatched it
up grooming you have just had your
haircut haven't you
yeah what's your grooming routine you've
got lovely skin W my grooming routine
blind me where do we start um so I'm 51
no yeah and I think the biggest grooming
thing advice is SPF I know it's a bit
cliche and it's not cliche you have come
to the right place I'm always banging on
banging on about SPF yeah I think I mean
you know I come from a a time when we
used to go on the sun bed and we used to
lay in the Sun and we didn't really wear
we wore you know SPF but it was only
like Factor 10 um but I think since you
know the last 20 years I've always worn
SPF I use an LED mask every day I have a
new face machine which is a micro
current machine I see a dermatologist a
couple of times a year so I think you
know you're seeing me this morning with
no eyebrows on because I haven't been to
the gym yet but I think it's important
to look after your skin but you know
sleep
exercise SPF I think they're probably is
again it's a cliche but I think they're
the most important things that you can
do you are my type of guy well thank you
very much for stopping a pleasure thank
[Music]
you Harry nice to meet you nice to meet
you too I like this look this is good
thank you thank you very much where's
everything from well I'm a bit crafty so
this is pural men's we which is just
found the corner uh Zara MH uni playay
and that's pretty much it standard High
stre stuff why crafty well I know I want
to look like design a bit on a budget
yeah okay well person of all certainly
not cheap is it no it's great but it's
an amazing brand so I do a bit of work
for them and yeah so they've got a few
stores across London and you got to
treat yourself right you most certainly
do what do you do for a living I work in
retail do like retail strategy um for
big land or states and help Brands open
new stores as well I like that so you
must know what maybe the big trends or
things to look out for in 2024 can you
tell us try try to I think what's what's
next um I think athle has kind of like
had its day now I think everyone's like
done that now we want to dress up a
little bit more but I think yeah Brands
like unic peral Zara are doing really
well to kind of get that blend of kind
of casual bit smartware grooming very
well groomed great hair any favorite
products favorite products heckles so
there's a skincare brand but they also
do hair products as well soate from
Margate got store in Hackney but it's
all made out of seawe so they reused the
seed into kind of know it's like a beot
brand but yeah slightly higher price
point but worth it good yeah yeah yeah
very good thanks very much Harry nice to
meet
you Joan nice to meet you nice to meet
you how are you yeah I'm good thanks how
are you doing I'm good very good I like
this look this is cool where's
everything from uh this from a brand
from China it's called Fast Club
experience it's my friend fast Club
experience yes they just basing in
Shanghai and uh there is their first
line and I quite like it have like nice
color yeah and warm and what about the
fleece where's the fleece from this one
just just Adidas Adidas yeah yeah yeah
yeah and TR is where three it's like a
pajama trousers yeah and then is it
Crocs uh it's a it's a it's a shoes from
Baga oh sorry not Croc banaga scrub it
no how dare
I
Jordan nice to meet you nice to meet you
you look very cool thank you so much I
love this look where's everything from
um where is everything from everything's
refed or gifted but these are Tom Ford
glasses yeah nice um this Lea jacket is
from uh fift shop in Manchester where
I'm from um these trousers I think are
just like Urban Outfitters bdg trousers
these boots I forgot the brand but
everyone's wearing them these days but
it's like these like biker leather boots
that I got from Princess makeer boot
sale and makes the scarf is from I want
to say Zara probably yeah dude you look
cool is it like an all black everything
wardrobe always always all black it
makes me feel comfortable makes me
feel I do know like it's just easy just
to throw everything on grooming your
skin is beautiful the eyes are popping
any favorite brands or any top tips I
would say top tips is always to keep
consistent no matter what like brand you
wear always like have a consistent
routine wash your face before you go to
bed wash it when you wake up in the
morning consistency is key
there you go Street styled perfect
weather perfect guys have had a really
good time comment down below who your
favorite was and also check out glasses
direct all linked down below until my
next new video I'm crossing the road
bye-bye
