hello and welcome to my channel in this
video we're going to talk about some of
the major fashion trends happening for
2024 now you're probably wondering if
side parts are coming back I don't think
they are but I don't know I'm kind of
feeling it today I'm also going to share
with you two trends that have been
really big for the past couple of years
that I think in 2024 are going to start
to look a little bit dated and you might
be okay with it I'm going to look into
my crystal ball give you my prediction
now if you found my channel by one of my
videos on like wearing your clothes a
different way or like how to restyle
your clothes or make use out of your
clothes I'm not telling you you need to
run out and buy anything especially not
Trends but it is really good to know
what is trending and what the trends are
and Trends are a fun way to inject some
interest into your wardrobe if they
speak to you if they don't enjoy them on
other people but you don't need to run
out and buy them so the first Trend I
want to talk about that's going to be
huge for
2024 and I think we're all going to end
up getting into it in one way or another
but it's patent leather so patent
leather we have not seen on the
Forefront of fashion in a while but
high-end designers like Mumu St Laurent
have already brought out a few pairs of
shoes and a patent leather and I think
we're going to see this trend trickle
down to the more accessible brands in
the new year I don't think we're just
going to see it in shoes either I think
we're going to see it in belts and in
bags and definitely shoes and not just
the ones that we remember wearing in tap
dance class let me know what you think
in the comments about patent leather if
you are excited about that or if you
think that's something you would want to
wear or if it's just not really your
thing
this next one you're going to be I think
you're going to be either really excited
this is coming back but maybe not at
first because you might cringe at first
but leggings leggings are coming back I
believe they're actually going to be a
really big trend for 2024 now not
exactly the way we were wearing them um
six or seven years ago with leggings
with a long tunic or the printed
leggings like we're not talking about
Lulu row uh we're not talking about you
know long baggy oversized asymmetric
ccal tunics the leggings outfits that
are going to come back in 2024 are going
to be more so like tall boots with a
button down with a Blazer or maybe it is
a long top but it's a more structured
long top or maybe it's worm with some
Adidas sambas if you had some Spanx faux
leather leggings and you got tired of
them hopefully you just put them away
for a while but you might want to bring
those out next year or even now um I did
have some that I almost sold I almost
sold them I was just so over them and I
did and I was like no I'm just going to
hang on to them I'm going to hang on to
them let me just wait and see if I like
them again and I actually brought them
out the other day and I'm like you know
what I can see myself getting back into
these not yet but I can see myself
getting back into these sometime soon in
a different way of course in 2023 we saw
metallics and sequins really make a
comeback silver metallic gold metallic
um sequins shiny you know sparkly shoes
we definitely saw that come back in 2023
3 and it's only continuing into 2024 I
think this is such a fun Trend and I
love these Styles paired back with more
classic tops or like everything else in
your outfit being classic or Basics but
then have the metallic or the sequin
part be kind of the star of the show for
some reason every time I see a photo of
somebody in a sequin skirt and a white
button down I'm like I love that I love
that look now I'd like to show you some
items from our sponsor for this video
which is dynamite clothing I discovered
Dynamite clothing not too long ago and
they have the cutest items for holiday
season this year oh my goodness I want
to start off with this sequin maxi skirt
it is so cute it fits so well it has a
stretchy waistband I love this being the
hero piece of the outfit and pairing it
back with more like Basics and Classics
I do think this is a great holiday ready
skirt like great for New Year's or
holiday parties and everything but
sequins have been such a big Trend that
I think if you just went out to a dinner
party um I think this would be a really
great option the next piece I want to
show you from Dynamite clothing is this
brown maxi dress that I have on right
now it is so cute and comfortable I've
expressed in so many videos that I've
been loving Brown lately I've just been
really gravitating towards it and I love
it in this maxi dress it does have a
slit in the side and body skimming but
not you know restrictively tight and I
just think it looks amazing I love it
with my black boots and a black bag
another item I have from Dynamite
clothing is this denim maxi skirt if
you've not tried a denim maxi skirt yet
I am a big fan I'm a huge fan of denim
maxi skirts this year I just feel like
they're more elevated than a pair of
jeans I have just been loving pairing it
with like my basic teas and my more
basic items it it just feels a little
bit more stylish to me like it feels
like I've got a little bit more dressed
up than a basic pair of jeans now I will
say this one runs it runs big I am
wearing a size small and I've never been
an extra small in my whole entire life I
definitely need to go down a size in
this skirt another holiday ready item
but also could be just an everyday item
from Dynamite clothing is this pleated
maxi skirt in this metallic fabric I
love I've been loving the metallics this
year and I feel like this is beautiful
where their pair of boots and a cute
sweater but this is one that could also
definitely go into spring now Dynamite
clothing doesn't only have sparkly shiny
things they do have a really great
selection for the holiday season but
they do have a lot of Basics and classic
looking clothing too the little black
tops that I'm showing you paired with a
couple of these items are from Dynamite
clothing as well they have a really
great selection of B Basics I will link
the products that I'm wearing in the
description box below and a link to
their website and let's continue now in
2023 we saw Maxi the Maxi length
comeback in all kinds of styles uh denim
maxi skirts are been a huge trend for
2023 and it was shockingly one of my
favorite trends of the whole year Maxi
lengths uh maxi dresses pleated maxi
skirts are coming back the Maxi length
is still very much on Trend however it's
not just the Maxi length it's more of a
minimalist
kind of a '
90ish style of Maxi length like the maxi
dresses we're seeing are sleek and
minimal not a ton of bells and whistles
you don't see lace mixed with stripes
mixed with ruffles and a tie all in the
same dress it's more Sleek minimal maybe
some rushing maybe a slit but very much
more of a minimal classic style the maxi
dress Maxi length is a style that I
really think we're going to just see
more of in 2024 I think it's going to
get bigger and I think people who
weren't quite into it in 2023 might
decide to try it in 2024 this next one I
believe we discussed in my fall Trends
video but nipped Blazers were definitely
seen on the runways for fall and they're
going to continue into 2024 now the
slightly oversized relaxed fit Blazers
are still here they are here to stay I
don't see those going anywhere for a
very long time and they are still very
much on Trend but what we are seeing in
addition to that now are the more nipped
Blazers not to be confused with the
super fitted slim soft shoulder Blazers
we were wearing in like
2015 um 2012 2018 I can't remember
exactly which years maybe it was all of
them we wearing these like little teeny
cropped Blazers so you might see a
cropped Blazer but it's going to be
strong shoulders it'll be a little
oversized or you might see a nipped in
Blazer but it's probably going to be
longer and it's still going to have
somewhat of a strong shoulder now for me
personally I love an oversized Blazer
and when I say oversized I mean slightly
oversized not the gargantuan ones that
look like you're wearing your football
player boyfriend's Blazer um I feel feel
like that trend is kind of on its way
out if it's not already that super super
oversized look that I don't really know
who it looks good on but a nice slightly
oversized Blazer love it I have one by
dish I talked about in another video
that I found it's in Gray I've been
loving gray this year I'm going to link
it below cuz I've just been loving this
um Blazer if I do a video on like most
loved items this year that will be in it
but Blazers in general I mean yeah every
girl needs one I I don't want to say
that cuz not not everybody likes them
but if you like Blazers and you're
feeling that look um they're you know
you're not going to go wrong with a
Blazer nipped in oversized you know
whatever whatever style you really love
I just feel like they can really go far
in your wardrobe now I want to say I
mentioned this one in my fall Trends
video but one item that we are seeing
come back for 2024 are long tops and so
for a long time like years we've seen
lots of cropped items like cropped not
cropped up here but just like cropped
your waist um more boxy cropped kind of
tops and sweaters and we are going to
see some more long tops tops come back
for 2024 now let me be more specific
because it's not just long tops that are
coming back but it's the more structured
ones not so much the shapeless oversized
tunics we were wearing you know a few
years ago I do think we were really
going to see this style come back and
kind of morph maybe into even something
else a few of you have mentioned that
you feel like the front tuck or the side
tuck is going to look dated soon I don't
know if it's going to look necessarily
dated but I do think we're going to find
more tops that look good being untopped
as opposed to just looking like they're
hanging over our pants now the last
couple of years we have seen a lot of
leather and um denim looks and that's
going to continue into 2024 denim on
denim leather on leather head to toe
leather leather skirts leather pants
leather jackets denim on denim outfits
denim dresses it's all still very much
on Trend and I believe it's going to be
definitely still very big for 2024 so
you know the last few years we've been
talking about Classics and quiet luxury
and white basic white t-shirts and white
tank tops how they're trending but
they're also very classic like they
really don't ever go out of style but
it's still it's still very much on Trend
classics classics and Basics and
Timeless pieces and a Timeless wardrobe
is still very much on trend for 2024 now
in
2029 or 2030 or something when we want
florals and um you know something that's
a lot more out there than Classics you
know cuz a pendulum it just it always
swings like this the classics that we're
talking about right now will still look
good they will never go out of style
so you're never going to go wrong if you
invest in a good quality classic item of
clothing that fits you that feels good
that's made of a good high quality
fabric the only thing I would say that's
a little bit different that is more of a
trend but I I don't really think this is
going anywhere for anytime anytime soon
but it's a more relaxed fit I've talked
about at some point how even with white
button downs we used to I remember it
was like hard to try to get them to fit
over your bus or you lean back and it
was all like coming apart like they were
just very fitted and tapered that is
very much not in style anymore Under the
Umbrella of this Classics are trending
kind of look for 2024 we are going to
see more Polo esque type style shirts be
very much on Trend we've already seen
some of these in 2023 with uh cashmere
polos you know cotton polos I see these
everywhere right now just all different
kinds of versions and different styles I
feel like it's a really great classy
casual look you compare it with jeans
add a cute boot um a structured bag and
if you like this preppy kind of look I
do think you'll really be able to find
these a lot even right now and
definitely into next year vest we saw
this start to come back in like 2020 the
argyle sweater vest that was becoming a
big Trend and it has just continued it
has stayed even though magazines have
been like vest are going out of style
nope they're not they are still very
much here and it's all types of vest
especially the more suiting Tor type
vest are very much on Trend they're
going to continue to be on Trend in 2024
kind of goes with that whole preppy old
money style look and I think we're just
going to see more of these and more
versions of these and probably figure
out even new ways to wear them now the
two trends that are like trendy Trends
and I think that they're going to look a
little dated soon maybe they're kind of
okay right now but I just feel like you
know 6 or eight months down the road I
think we're going to start being like
you know
I don't know about these anymore and one
of them is the cutout tops with like the
cutout right here now I was I loved this
trend when it was a couple years ago
when it started I just really really
liked it a lot I didn't like it on
myself cuz I was just really
self-conscious of this area I kind of
think this cutout right here is going to
go a little bit The Way of the cold
shoulder top where it's just going to
start looking a little bit dated we're
only going to see it offered in like
Amazon and places that produce a lot of
fast fashion the other Trend I think
that is going to start feeling kind of
dated and I don't think anyone's going
to be mad about it um but it's the
crossover button on the on Denim and I
do still see these for sale I don't feel
like it's necessarily like out of style
right this second but I just I just feel
like I don't I don't know I wouldn't go
and buy any any new denim that has the
crossover button I think that look was
more of a fad and I don't really see
that lasting for too much longer now
again with Trends they are fun I love
looking to see what's trending I think
it's important to know what's trending
especially if you're trying to figure
out what in the word where to start if
you're like trying to get your style
together um it's nice to have a good
place to start but by no means does
anyone need to be a slave to Fashion you
should always figure out what you like
what styles you like what works for you
and go that direction whether it's on
Trend or not so I hope you like this
video let me know what you think let me
know what trends you're excited about I
will do more Trend videos as we go into
the new year and some more on some
spring Trends and that kind of thing so
make sure to subscribe if you are not
subscribed already give this video a
thumbs up if you liked it or a thumbs
down if you didn't and I will see you
next time
