friends one of the most beloved shows in
the history of Television its popularity
transcends even our national borders
spreading all across the world like a
virus it makes sense that it's so well
known considering that it has 37 seasons
and about 4 000 episodes at least that's
how it felt binging the show could there
be any more episodes see what I did
there I call that pulling a Chandler
since I was born long after the show
first premiered in 1994. I never got to
experience the show as it aired like old
people did oh my nose there we go I have
a nose ring now I'm 20 again I had seen
a handful of episodes of friends before
I was familiar with the characters I
know them all of course you got fevers
you got Joel you got Rick you got molly
you got Raquel and then you got chandy's
I knew them all I don't like being a
passive fan of things though I want to
really commit so I sit out on a mission
I was going to watch every single
episode
of French and by God through sheer will
and determination I finished the show in
six days
and four months pretty impressive I know
of course this would not be a beer in a
movie without a little elky I even got
myself a friend's Cup in fact I've had
this for years you could tell because
there's a chip in it that just shows how
much I use it that's the color story I
created to hide the fact that when I got
the package a couple days ago this is
the last thing I needed to make this
video and I got really excited so I was
doing a little dance as I was unboxing
it and I dropped it and as it was
falling I thought I better not let this
hit the ground so I smashed my knee into
the side of the countertop pinning the
cup between the counter and the knee I
don't even know why I'm embarrassed
about that like ah that was a display of
my top tier athleticism so as I pour
myself a drink I'd like to let uh future
Dylan have a little moment here I can't
believe this video is finished I'm so
happy you guys finally get to watch this
one I started watching friends last
summer so in a way this video is like a
year in the making and this this video
here was always meant to be just some
goofball's opinion watching through a
famous television show like friends half
my joy though of making videos is
hearing your opinion I'm not shy about
my opinions I don't want you to be
either go down in the comments section
let me know what your opinions are on
the show on this video let me know what
you guys thoughts enjoy this one I'm so
happy that this video has finally come
to fruition it's finished and I'm happy
you guys are here so yeah enjoy now we
stir it carefully carefully I like these
pants I don't want to spill today
definitely carefully this is how you
stir things this is gonna be a long
video sit back ladies and gentlemen
because you're about to experience a
thick one oh
a thick video oh my God the video is so
thick because I hate I hate going on
YouTube and then finding a good video
being like hey I watch all of something
here are my thoughts in a eight minute
video I can't finish a meal in eight
minutes and then seven of the minutes
are just Recaps and then you have one
thought here's your one thought on the
entire series no today you're gonna get
a lot of thoughts we're gonna go season
by season and not only that to spice it
up I thought it'd be fun to name season
MVPs now I won't be naming the season
MVPs of course in my hands I have 10
envelopes all these are official they're
all sealed right I can't I can't tamper
with any of them these come from the
academy the official Academy has sent
these each season has a corresponding
MVP so after we recap the season we'll
name an MVP from That season sound fun I
hope so because it's a big part of this
video the friend group consists of six
people and before we dive headlong into
the plots it might help to get a quick
refresher on who each of them is Phoebe
is the quirky one she had a rough
childhood but with her mom deciding that
life isn't something she wanted to do
anymore which left Phoebe homeless for a
time this is a sitcom so it's not like
she has severe and crippling Trauma from
those days the show will Explore her
family stuff her twin sister her real
birth mother her father over the course
of the first few seasons most of that
stuff though gets dropped and comes up
less and less after season four she's
also a singer-songwriter which is more
of a hobby not something she's pursuing
as a career for a career she's a
masseuse Joey is also into the Arts he
is an actor not a very good one he's in
some bad plays until he gets his big
break on a soap opera where he plays Dr
Drake ramore he likes acting eating
women wait I should let me clarify those
are three separate things acting comma
eating comma women
he doesn't eat women let me be clear a
lot of his humor comes from him being an
idiot but he's a handsome idiot with a
big heart these are traits everybody
loves which lead to him being one of the
fan favorites Chandler is the witty
Everyman he has commitment issues that
stem from his parents difficult
relationship his father came out as
trans and his mother is a mega
successful author of smutty novels and
those two had a rocky relationship when
Chandler was younger and Chandler was
caught up in the middle so he did the
old suppressant joke method of dealing
with his trauma where you take all that
trauma and you stuff it in a bottle and
then you put it somewhere deep inside of
you where you don't have to look at it
too often and then anytime someone says
hey what's that bottle you make jokes
and distract and deflect his past stuff
only comes up from time to time and for
the most part Chandler I think is the
one intended to be the most relatable of
the guys he's a generally level-headed
he's got a stable corporate job he's a
witty every man Rachel is the Catalyst
for the show's beginning she runs into
the Central Perk which is the coffee
house that they frequent and she's in a
wedding dangerous this is juxtaposed in
the first episode with Ross's divorce
and considering this is what kicks off
the plot and the pilots it makes Ross
and Rachel's romance feel like the
centerpiece of the show for the first
several seasons Rachel comes from a
wealthy family and is she's acclimating
to what most new adults deal with in
their everyday life you know paying
bills for the first time working a
tiring job that's not very fulfilling
even though she left money because she
went against her father's wishes of of
marrying someone she didn't love and she
wanted her independence she still does
enjoy shopping and fashion and nicer
things Ross is in a similar boat as
Rachel whereas Rachel is starting over
before her marriage begins Ross is
starting Anew after his marriage is over
because his wife is a lesbian his
beginning Arc is about acclimating to
single life and mourning his marriage
while also dealing with the Fallout of
his divorce which includes him moving
into a new apartment eventually becoming
a single father and adapting to his
ex-wife's new partner who essentially
replaced him he's kind of nerdy and not
greater on women and if this isn't
obvious enough already he Monica are
siblings as for Monica she is a chef and
in the same way that Chandler is the
every man who is the most normal of the
guys Monica is that on the girl side she
also has a bit of a complicated
relationship with her parents because
they very obviously favored Ross over
her as the two were growing up which is
a recurring theme that the show goes
back to a number of times both for humor
but then also just for Monica's
character overcoming her mother's bias
towards Ross in finding peace with all
that she also wants a family and she
used to be fat which is one of her
recurring jokes that the show uses now
that you're reminded of some of the
character information I think we can
jump right into the seasons so let us
begin where it is only natural to begin
season four season four begins I'm just
kidding we'll start season one
[Music]
what really surprised me about season
one is just how heartwarming a lot of
the scenes are there are many scenes
that aren't played for comedy it's more
about growing to connect with these
characters I actually really enjoyed
watching Chandler struggle with his his
purposeless job and having to Define
meaning in his life and Ross coming off
a divorce and he says I grabbed a spoon
how sweet is that
I just grabbed a spoon the spoon being a
metaphor of course for him moving on to
the next chapter of his life I I just
really like that those moments are so
important in in growing affection for
these characters one character you never
grow affection for is Travis the monkey
I hate animals and shows oh Dylan what
about the duck and Goose what about the
the the chicken thingy whatever I don't
I don't even know I don't even know what
animals Joey and Chandler had I just
know I hate him there wasn't a single
time I was like hey I'm happy these
animals are on the show
is that controversial opinion maybe if
you think that's controversial we're
just getting started baby I have
perspective I understand first Seasons
they're always they're gonna bumble
around a little bit you know they're
gonna find their footing the actors have
to know what gets them laughs what what
parts of their personality or their
character's personality they should lean
into the writers are still learning what
people like to watch first seasons are
always like like an experiment they're
just gonna try things out and then see
what works and then grow from there
because of this there's a lot of jokes
in the first season that just fall flat
an example would be uh episode five so
Chandler is trying to break up with his
girlfriend Janice you can do this it's
just like pulling off a Band-Aid
Janice
hi Janice but he's a coward he just
can't muster up the courage so what he
starts doing is drinking espressos to
give him the energy and energy equals
courage that's the famous Albert
Einstein quotient formula thing
so Chandler Donaldson espresso he heads
back to the counter to to get another
one because he needs to build up the
courage here the comedic setup is there
it's it's a good plot you know you could
watch Chandler get more and more hyper
as he's trying to you know find the
words but while the setup is there they
cut away like almost immediately
afterwards and then when we cut back we
see a bunch of espressos on the table
and it's like oh so he drank those
espressos well I think the comedy is in
watching him continue to rely on the
espressos that I think that's the funny
parts but instead the show's just like
no he did it already so if he's acting
hyper that's why I think they fast
forwarded through the part that would
have been funny let's talk about some of
the first season highlights episode 13
fevers she dates a psychiatrist
psychologist
I don't know the difference one of them
can prescribe you stuff so that's
probably the one I should I should see
but the psychiatrist he comes in and he
he sews Discord with knowledge with the
psychology of this big brainy brain it's
actually a wonderful comedic setup for
multiple scenes as he just sews the
vision between the characters he makes
him feel terrible about themselves it's
so funny why would I marry her if I
thought on any level that she was a
lesbian maybe you wanted your marriage
to fail the group just slowly turns on
him one character at a time it's
wonderful it's actually like a great Arc
for a whole episode I hate that guy you
want to know what else is great other
characters actually laugh at Chandler's
jokes he's not just talking into a voice
I actually missed this I think season
one did this better than any other
season the characters interacted with
each other it kind of got into sitcom
mode where an actor says something funny
and then all the actors stand around
waiting for the laughter in the audience
to subside and then they can go on with
the next line but it felt more organic
because they're like interacting with
each other looking at each other you
know smiling laughing and it felt more
so like a group of friends rather than a
group of actors reading nine don't get
me wrong they perfected the formula for
friends that's why it's so popular but
season one just has um it has an
organicism
that's a word I don't care it might not
be but it is now and if it is then I
knew it all along there's a lot of
glitter in season one there's a lot of
Bad in season one I imagine if people
are doing like oh I'm ranking all 10
seasons of Friends season one's probably
gonna end up pretty low on the list I
get it it's rough around the edges but
it's got a lot of Sweet Moments and a
lot of it does a lot of things that uh
the later Seasons don't do like I said
the organicism thing
remember when I said organicism and that
was a word I don't want to spend too
much time on season one just because
there's so much else to cover so let's
go ahead and move on to the MVP of
season one Joe can I get a drum roll
thank you all right season one MVP yes
Ross congratulations Ross that's a
pumpkin the academy they don't have very
good handwriting so they bought a
stencil pack to write these down and
then the stencil pack came with uh some
shapes a little pumpkin in the corner
here Ross is the season one MVP though I
believe the creators have said that that
Ross was the the first person they had
in mind and the first person that they
cast it they went after him hard and it
pays off I think he's the first person
that that gets into the groove of his
character without Ross in season one I
think the show would have struggled a
lot more I think he brought a lot of the
heart to the show in season one so
season two
did someone say cliffhanger
no no one said that oh I forgot to add
that then at the end of season one so
season one ended with a cliffhanger and
season two begins picking up exactly
where it left off Ross is getting back
from a place that he went to go dig
dinosaur bones from see Ross is a
paleontologist he's really into
dinosaurs which is something that the
show doesn't cover much it's a little
Easter egg for you or should I say a
little pterodactyl leg
okay but Rachel she finds out about
Ross's feelings towards her at the end
of season one well what else did he say
I mean does he like want to go out with
me given that he's desperately in love
with you he probably wouldn't mind
getting a cup of coffee or something and
she decides to rush to the airport to
meet him from back from his excavation
day or whatever he was doing
Pro not this he wasn't doing that maybe
he was doing this because he came back
with a girlfriend I don't
know I really liked your hands my hands
yeah way to go guys the show is actually
trying to figure itself out a little bit
still here early on in season two there
is a episode where they
Western format where Joey's like a
cologne salesman there's another cologne
salesman but it's like a western theme
and they really lean heavy into it it's
not something that almost any other
episode does ever but you know what I
kind of dig it especially if you're
gonna binge the show getting a little
variety every now and again is really
good
howdy episode 3 here in season two is
probably the the weirdest episode of
friends that exists tonally totally
totally not totally tonally with an N
show them Joe ah Mr heckles dies see Mr
huckles is the the neighbor downstairs
and he's complaining he's always like
hey uh rabble rousers rabble robs are
nothing up there and he bangs the broom
against the floor so the kids
my kids I mean the people in their
mid-20s which I guess to me would be
like old people because I'm in my early
20s the kids respective to Mr heckle's
age they start kicking on the floor
they're like ah we're gonna we're gonna
rattles harder oh Mr Reckless he comes
up he comes up to to talk to the kids
about their the rousing of the rebels
and they he knocks on the door and as
you can see here completely alive if you
watch this moment exactly right here
you'll notice an intake of breath breath
intake here character is still alive
right here but after they start banging
on the floor he died he like shocked his
heart they literally make a point of
saying that like he was he died with the
broom in his hands oh he must have been
sweeping he found a broom in his hand
because he was banging on the ceiling
the friends aren't going to tell him
that they were you know a party to
murder they're they're kind of they're
murderers in a way they literally like
heart attacked him which I you know what
technically Mr heckles died from banging
his tackles you dog and it's it's
actually really sad that he dies uh or
is it I don't I don't know how to feel
because the show doesn't know how to
tell me how to feel right up until the
end the whole thing is played for jokes
except there's this one there's this I
really enjoyed this right here I was
sweeping yesterday could have been me
yeah
you never know never know pretty funny
right but at the end of the episode
after playing everything like the whole
episode is just played for humor at the
end of the episode they have this like
finale like series finale level of
energy Goodbye Mr heckles
we'll try to keep it down
I swear I feel like I missed dozens of
scenes where the kids uh the the friend
group has this really affectionate
relationship with with Mr heckles I feel
like I just missed like like friends is
a sequel series to a series I didn't
watch because I have I don't care about
Mr Eckles at all he might be in season
one I I'm gonna be completely honest I
don't remember but it's not he's not
someone that you like care about he's
just like this eccentric old man but
then when he dies they give like this
piano like hey we'll keep it down
see you later flip the light switch off
close the door that's how you end a
series that's how Threes Company ended
that's how friends ended huh what's the
final shot of friends they do the pan
over in The Empty Apartment and then it
sits on the door I thought the actor had
died but then come the the series
regathering the the the reunion is what
that's called I couldn't think of it
shut up shut up you get one vodka soda
deep and then you try to put words
together all right it's more difficult
than it looks in the reunion here he is
he comes in and if you look right here
here there's a clear intake of breath
still a lot that's it's a it's a subtle
but obvious sign that you'll know
somebody's alive if you see the a breath
intake I did take a a Litany of notes
one thing I noted is uh Chandler and
Monica
phenomenal energy they have phenomenal
chemistry together even before they ever
get together their relationship is never
really even flirty it's just like
they're really good friends and it's so
wholesome as far as I know I think it
was unplanned Chandler and Monica
getting together but the wholesome
moments that like that worked out super
well for the Arc of Chandler and Monica
having those moments early on and then
getting together yeah oh just Exquisite
oh let's talk about episode seven you
guys know episode seven right
I don't I scripted that I don't know
what that means though oh oh it's the
one where Rachel leaves she drunkenly
leaves the voicemail for Ross confessing
her feelings she's like I'm over you
Ross and he's like
when were you under me oh Ross like you
know and I swear Ross is like concussed
with that information he's just so funny
like at Clear MVP candidate right here
so him and his current girlfriend
they're about to buy a cat together
which is a pretty serious commitment
like you can't you can't just get an
animal if you're not gonna stay together
right because what do you break up who
gets the animal but this is this is how
he responds right I can't deal with this
right now I'm gonna go get a cat
okay
that's so funny it's funny enough I
can't see anything I'm looking at a
green screen right now I'm playing the
scene in my mind and I know how he says
it and it was still funny enough to make
me almost spit out my drink and of
course you guys know the scene the
Rachel Ross scene getting together where
he comes in he's all pissed because he's
like I have a girlfriend now why do you
have to tell me this now I've been in
love with you for so many years it's too
late and then she yells at him and he
storms off furiously I don't need your
stupid [ __ ] good and then she locks the
doors on his ass and he comes back
I gotta be honest I got major serial
killer vibes from this moment right here
like this is a woman crying and he's
just watching her like he couldn't
softly knock shuffling wrap your
knuckles against the door there you
couldn't do that for her you're just
gonna watch a woman cry yeah that would
get you off for us and then eventually
she turns and sees him watching her as
she gasps she oddly gasps
I don't know serial killer you might be
losing MVP votes right now I don't know
about that move they're just watching
like that I will say the show handles
Rachel Ross very well early on you know
like it looks like right now they'll get
together right it's season two right
around the one third Mark of the Season
get them together but it's not just like
a smooth sailing type thing they're
about to get together but you know Ross
still has his girlfriend he has to break
up with her and the guys convince him
let's make a pro con list let's get
logical about this okay we'll make a
list Rachel and Julie pros and cons
which is funny
a guy would do to be honest if I was
there
would not have stopped them I would have
said hell yeah it sounds like a good
idea in this alternate world where I'm
there I'm also Southern apparently so
hell yeah boys
Wow Let's round up these pros and cons
and then Rachel's reaction she comes in
and sees this list and she's like well
this is pretty insensitive pretty mean
like all the cons for her oh just a
waitress and it takes him a little bit
longer to get together now because of
this I think that when you have 14 000
episodes you gotta Dr you gotta drink
out a couple of the the major plots I I
applaud the show for this actually um I
only have one note about episode eight
and that is that uh Smelly Cat sucks
it's a disclaimer if you don't like
being upset then you might want to skip
this next part here Smelly Cat Smelly
Cat it's an awful song it's not funny I
hate it in fact I hate most of Phoebe's
musical performance jokes writing a song
stop me if you've heard it they're so
inefficient the formula for the jokes is
always the same it takes longer for the
joke to get out because you have to sing
it so you have to have like a minute a
half to get two jokes out like it's not
efficient I I hate I I hate the monkey I
hate Phoebe's musical jokes who else I
hate the duck who else I'm coming for
you I also have a note that in episode
16 at 12 minutes in five seconds
precisely Ross makes a funny sound
should we see I'm already seeing someone
oh oh oh
yeah definitely was oh MVP of season two
is coming up someone just got some votes
one thing that's gonna help Ross's MVP
case for season two is that Chandler
makes this declaration I'm not gonna let
you do this you are surprisingly strong
Ross is strong I would I would go as far
as to say Ross Beefcake Ross is a big
old Beefcake because when you think of
Beefcake do you think of beef
no do you think of cake no do you think
of that beefy cake that Rachel made in
that one episode
no when you think Beefcake you think of
roster for M Geller since we're on the
topic of of guys and meats let's talk
about Joey's meat
I wanted to say that I we should talk
about Joey's meaty plot that he gets in
season two it's a great plot see Joey he
gets fired from a television show I
think it's Days of Our Lives he was a
soap actor and he was riding high and
then he gets fired from the show for
having too big of an ego and then he has
to go back down he has to audition for
bit roles but I was Dr Drake ramore it's
like taking a step backwards
I'm not gonna do this roles that are
just barely in the movie at all and he
has to audition he thinks he's too big
for it it's just like a a really good
exchange with Ross look I don't want to
hear this right now I'm just saying well
don't just say I wrote down that Joey is
like a golden retriever except Dumber
that's pretty much what I wrote about
Joey's character he's always doing dumb
things but you gotta love him because
he's
he's the dog he's extremely lovable but
sometimes he's gonna pee on your bed and
rip up your furniture and when you're
watching him take a step back in his
career it's like it's like that moment
where you you get upset with your dog
and your dog like dips its beak it's
horror it's it's mouth horn what what do
you call that what do you call that
Contraption on a dog's face where it
eats from it's jaw no the Jaws no let's
there's a word what the [ __ ] is a dog's
beak called you know what I'm talking
about when a dog dips its beak and it
looks up at you with those eyes those
lovable eyes that's how I felt with
Joey's suffering yeah it hurt me finish
up finished up number one time for
number two
let's talk about episode 20 quickly uh
the the whole episode feels so off I
don't know what the deal is there I felt
like I was watching a show trying to
imitate friends I I felt like I was
watching acquaintances like a knockoff
plot is uh Joey and Chandler they don't
want to hang out with Monica's older
boyfriends we're trying to figure out
who to bring to the Knicks game tonight
we have an extra ticket why don't you
take Richard to the game Rich it's
really nice and everything uh it's just
so we don't know him really well you
know because he's you know old she
convinces them to hang out with him so
they hang out with him one time and now
they are so like desperately in love
with him they try to imitate his every
move his every action Chandler goes on a
mustache Joey starts smoking cigars the
whole pot line just feels so forced I
don't I didn't like it here's a great
Joey joke relax go get a beer I don't
want a beer who said it was for you
Charlie Sheen is in episode 23. he
actually made me laugh out loud what did
he say that made you laugh out loud I I
don't know I just I didn't write that
part down I just wrote that he made me
laugh out loud so good job Charlie one
of your is really good you know what's
funny I'm imagining you guys in the
comment section being like hey Dylan
love the video I laughed really hard at
one of your jokes I can't tell you how
pissed off I'd be at that comment I'd be
like which one what are you you're not
gonna tell me the joke don't do that
please listen please don't do that
please do not do that actually you know
what I don't care you do it you know
what I challenge you do it reverse
psychology is an awesome tool I don't
know if you guys know about it season
two ends with uh Monica and mustache
breaking up because she wants a family
and he just wants his
that's all he wants in life as she makes
the mature decision you know what I feel
like Monica doesn't get a ton of credits
I'm gonna talk about this later it's I I
don't remember exactly what I scripted I
remember writing up something about
Monica being the glue of the show all
right now I'm gonna talk about it later
and I also hate that she broke up with
mustache because they were great
together I actually really like them as
a couple she never got together with
Chandler I think this she would have
been with him the whole time I would
have been totally fine and I hated
especially knowing her love interest for
season three we're not there yet we got
to do MVP season two MVP who is it gonna
be from my limited communication with
the academy uh they have told me that
it's not going to be rush they thought
it would be unfair if he won two in a
row but instead the MVP for season two
ah the MVP for season two brought so
much presence to the screen I dare say
this much presence has not been brought
in the history of Television I say that
not lightly when I say that heavily I
hung on to this person's every word and
every second that they were not on
screen I felt offended as a viewer that
you were depriving me of moments with
this person season two is MVP is Russ
from episode 10 the one with Russ I know
what your problem is you're jealous it's
a little bit weird because I've never
seen him ever act in anything ever again
I I couldn't I struggled to find uh who
the actor was I haven't seen him in
anything since this episode of Friends I
think he was just such a Magnificent
Presence on screen once he was Russ he
was rust forever and no one could ever
see him as anything other than Russ
tragic he was uh he was brought down by
his own greatness I know the feeling
season three
hello
season three's opening is one of my
favorite openings to a season ever it is
such a great cold open if you don't know
what a cold open is it's the scene that
you play before the credits oftentimes
the whatever happens in that scene
doesn't even relate to the rest of the
episode's plot it's just a quick little
joke what happens here is after her
friends comes back from its Hiatus it's
now on television again the cast walk-in
and they realize there's a group of
friends sitting in their spot feels like
the scene brushes against the fourth
wall without breaking it I enjoyed the
hell out of that it's like they're all
silently rectifying in their heads sweet
but we're the main characters it's so
fun I love that so much episode three is
wonderful episode three is the the plot
where all the friends are trying to get
ready for one of Ross's events Ross is a
special event he has to go to every
character is all confined to the one
apartment it's the one location for the
whole episode they all have their own
plots going on they're all scrambling
around trying to get ready and trying to
resolve whatever interpersonal Dynamics
you'll be a Chandler are fighting
Monica's dealing with her breakup with
mustache Rachel can't figure out what to
wear Phoebe's got a stain on her dress
there's so much going on it's like chaos
it's all in one set it's something that
actually they talked about I believe in
the um the reunion special either there
or in interviews it's a rare concept I
think I remember Seinfeld was famous for
that they had an episode where the
entire plot took place in a Chinese
restaurant and the whole episode
revolves around the group trying to get
a table I remember either it was
Seinfeld's or it was Larry David who
talked about how the studio hated that
idea like the whole thing's just going
to take place in a Chinese restaurant
like that's gonna be the whole plot I
don't think that's gonna work and then
they did it anyways and it was a massive
success it's kind of what this was here
in France but in friends they did it to
save budgets because the show
you know what I don't know where the
show's budget went I don't know how
friends was expensive as it was early on
because I know that there's a lot of
episodes and there's a lot of crew but
everything is on set they didn't do
anything crazy there wasn't many stunts
I don't know what the budget of friends
was they can't have been very high I
just love the Simplicity of this episode
it's just jokes on jokes some of the
plots intertwined and untangle it's
actually Joey legitimately broke his arm
I think his shoulder dislocated it's not
this tank don't worry this isn't the
gross one he was doing this and in a
different take he actually I think
dislocated his shoulder jumping into the
chair it's ironic I think because they
had to then pause production because he
had to go to the hospital so in this
episode where they were trying to save
money by just shooting a quick episode
all in one location Joey breaks his arm
and now they gotta shoot a second day
which just added to the budget it's very
ironic oh hey is now a good time to say
something that people are gonna hate
listen Ross and Rachel
Frost and Rachel they're a terrible
couple I hate them together Ross has a
work event that is very important to him
thank you and Rachel sabotages him
intentionally she refuses to get ready
instead of seeing that he has to deal
with like a bunch of chaos from the rest
of their friend group and just support
him she instead gets upset because he
yelled at her because he's like no you
have to pick something to wear and we
have to go now she's like don't yell at
me I'm not gonna go now and then also we
have Ross who wants to so badly
celebrate the anniversary of him and
Rachel Getting Together Rachel's got a
new job she's like don't come to my
workplace we have some serious deadlines
we cannot celebrate our anniversary
because we I have work to do how about I
come up there no no no no honey please I
just have too much to deal with and he's
like
okay I'm gonna ignore everything you
just said and I'm gonna come anyways I
I've got a crisis yeah but I've got
couscous and then Ross views it as her
prioritizing her job over him so he's
just kind of like a baby about it
they're just you know what you know what
happened they're not emotionally mature
enough for each other at this point and
I know that they're the couple right and
I don't you know what I'm gonna be
entirely honest here I don't know how
people feel about friends I don't talk
to people about the show Mostly because
I had only seen you know us a couple
spot episodes here and there maybe like
a few dozen of the 38 000 so maybe other
people think that Ross and Rachel
shouldn't be together I don't know I
kind of feel like they're the it couple
though everyone talks about Ross and
Rachel so I think everyone loves them
maybe I don't know but I'll tell you I
don't I don't feel composed to root for
them also I wrote that down and Pages
the program is telling me compulse is
not a word it doesn't recognize it it's
shaking me to my core I don't know what
to do don't run underline me Pages I'm a
writer I know words Chandler and Monica
season three Chandler Monica Chandler
and Momo mom it's about high time I
start talking about these two
all right we got a couple more seasons
before they're officially together but
again more of these moments in season
three where it's like they just have
such a pure relationship and Chandler
sometimes floats it out there like hey
what have you and I got together never
gonna find a boyfriend again worse comes
stores
I'll be your boyfriend she's always like
yeah right I'm gonna have to be really
desperate to get with you which is the
truth because that's what happens she
gets really desperate later on and then
chooses him and she wasn't even looking
for him she was looking for Joey oh
that's sad when I
went to your room that night I was
actually looking
for Joey I that doesn't affect Chandler
but it would affect me they're a great
couple because they're great friends
they just want the best for each other
and those are just like the the most
wholesome relationships without getting
too far ahead of myself I just say just
incredible Momo and Cha-Cha together
even when they're platonic I think it's
wonderful hey Thanksgiving episodes I
didn't hone in on them specifically I do
like that they didn't and I like that
they picked the holiday and then I think
every season they had like a special
Thanksgiving episode in season three
it's the the football episode which is
super fun because I like football
there's also the Dutch woman who is
randomly in the park on Thanksgiving
dressed up super well and she's like oh
can I watch you six strangers play
football
I'm Dutch she doesn't even understand
this sport why would she want to watch a
bunch of strangers play a game she's
never seen before she's clearly dressed
up to go somewhere but instead she's
like you know what no I'll stay and
watch you play a game I don't understand
she doesn't even celebrate Thanksgiving
she's Dutch anyone offended Dylan she
can be Dutch but also cinematican what
would you know you blithering buffoon
yes shut up don't defend the Dutch do
you know what the Dutch have done they
invented clogs
no idea if that's actually true or not
it but I'm gonna tell you that
information came from the same part of
my brain that tells me compulsed is a
word so I'm pretty sure I'm right hey
you want something cool with green
screen hey check this out Hey Joe all
right Joe's my editor by the way where
do Dutch people live I know this
information I love geography Dutch
people live right here
pretty smart of me point is uh
Thanksgiving episodes are great I love
them on that point actually kind of
Monica and Ross
great Duo they're a great comedic Duo
specifically Ross because he's just so
beefcakey I mean look at this man a keg
of beef have they talked about this yet
just about just a complete it's just a
full package Beefcake and I know I know
some of you might hate Ross he's not a
very good boyfriend or father like his
son where is his son where is his son
his son just disappears well I don't
think his son disappears I think Ross
disappears from his son's life you might
call him a deadbeat father but in Ross's
defense
kids
kind of a bummer someone's gonna say it
I'm gonna be the one they can't go on
roller coasters they can't come pick you
up when you've been out drinking with
the boys and you need a ride and you're
not supposed to take your frustrations
with the world out on your child anymore
I guess that's a law now what's the
point of even having kids then so I
don't I don't blame rosh at all for not
wanting anything to do with his son but
you cannot deny that this show is so
much better with Ross in it all right
and if you disagree then get your
Revenge by going down to the comment
section and telling me you like a joke
of mine but don't tell me which one
Speaking of Ross which uh we haven't
done much in this video he is super
funny in episode 10 when he has to sell
the Girl Scout cookies what I love about
this episode specifically is even though
it starts on a really high note of Ross
breaking a small child's bones that
lovable Ross I expected them to end the
episode on a similar dark note right
like Ross he's trying to sell Girl Scout
cookies in place of the broken bone
child he feels good for the bone
breaking so he's gonna sell the cookies
in her stead and he tries to sell enough
to get her the top prize which is a
space camp Journey trip thing but
unfortunately he comes in second so
instead he invites the girl to come over
and they give her like this really nice
makeshift space camp experience it was
really heartwarming
if you look past the fact that a small
child is going over to a grown man's
house by herself where two other grown
men are also waiting for her
just ignore that part and also ignore
the fact that Rossi's uh bedside with
this girl who he just harmed bodily
bodily harm there's not a parent to be
found let's give a little bit more love
to the show's writers ah they give Joey
another meaty plot across all 57 Seasons
he's got two meaningful plots this is
one of them see he falls in love with
his co-star of his play and the
Brilliance of this is that over multiple
episodes this is a multi-episode Arc he
falls in love with her he can't get with
her because she's with a director but
then eventually they end up hooking up
but she's gotta leave so much of that is
so so like well made television but over
the course of this Arc we don't really
know much about the play that Joey's in
we get context clues like they're on set
it looks like a normal living room so it
seems like a kind of like a like a low
stakes High emotion interpersonal drama
between like a couple but finally it's
opening night they got a crowd Joey's
giving this this meaningful monologue to
the girl that's replacing the actual
actress Because the actual actress then
she got a job like somewhere else so
she's moving what's going on what's all
this about La I I can't stay here just
for you can you at least stay to the end
of the play but you came to watch Joey
recite his feelings that's coming
through his character but it's truly
meant for her
and then a ladder comes down from the
sky and he says he has to go to space I
gotta say goodbye and I gotta say it
quick because this is killing me you got
things you have to do now
and so do I and so
I'm gonna get on this spaceship
probably one of my favorite moments in
all of friends because the show
strategically hid information from you
but not in a way that like raised any
alarm Bells I'm gonna be talking about
Rachel a little bit more as the uh the
the show progresses because I think she
I don't wanna I don't want to spoil
anything
but Rachel is about to pick up steam
like her character and her performance
is about to Skyrocket and I think it
starts here in season three with the
episode with the fear you need the fear
the fear see Rachel has this comfortable
job as a waitress and she's not very
good at it but it's security she's not
really pushing herself because uh she's
got this job and Chandler and Joey they
convince Rachel like hey as long as you
work here you're not gonna be motivated
you need the fear the fear of not
knowing how to pay your bills that's
going to motivate you to go out and
pursue your dreams and eventually
achieve them if you quit this job you
then have motivation to go after a job
you really want I just I never really
cared about her past life you know like
her friends would come and they'd be all
judgmental because they had money and
Rachel left money to kind of like find
her own life and her own personality
rather than what she's supposed to be
that never like resonated with me so
this is the start of Rachel chasing her
dreams and like finding herself and I
really like that plotline just don't
care this
do so I don't think I should do it
anymore Gunther I quit does this mean
we're gonna have to start paying for
coffee I wrote down that Ross is funny
after Rachel kisses him in episode 12 is
that true let's take a look
I also wrote down here in my notes uh
Ross is funny checking out a dude's
balls
episode 13.
oh so ferbs is dating a new guy right
and this guy doesn't he goes Commando he
wears shorts with uh with a wide birth
standard notices and uh he tells Ross go
take a peek at this dude's balls and I
don't think that's funny in and of
itself it's funny how Ross plays it
let's watch let's watch the uh it won't
be necessary
ah okay okay okay this is the Monica
part okay Monica is the glue right I was
teasing this before she is the only one
that you can't take out of the frame
group and then the friend group survives
I think she's like the one pin she's the
linchpin I think without Monica I don't
think Phoebe and Rachel ever hang out
with Ross and Joey I think Monica is the
linchpin right so I want to give him
some credits it feels unfair because I
don't think Monica gets as many comedic
setups as some of the other actors get I
don't know if that's true that's just
the feeling I get but I think she's an
integral part of the show so I just want
to give Monica a little love here and I
always found her relationships pretty
endearing right so in season three she
starts dating this guy I don't know who
this guy is I thought this was mustache
before but this guy doesn't have a
mustache and mustache did have a
mustache so I don't know who this
character is but she starts getting into
a situationship with him they can't be
together she gets all cutesy because uh
she tries to surprise him by showing up
at his apartment with roses and wine and
then he brought a girl back and then had
to kick her out and she felt all
embarrassed it was actually pretty
endearing you know
that's what the show was was built on it
was like hey watch these 20-somethings
find themselves they find their careers
and their relationships that was the
whole premise of the show I think of
everyone's successes I was most rooting
for Monica I did not want Monica to find
happiness with the billionaire though
I this this feels like a fever dream
this was a real thing it wasn't even
like just an episode or two this was an
arc this is a serious love interest for
Monica the billionaire it is the worst
type of romance because at first she's
not attracted to him I still want to be
attracted to you but you're not he's
like you know what don't worry about it
just try to date me anyways you don't
have to be attracted to me I got money
[ __ ] she's like you know I just I I I
can't find it in myself to be attracted
to you and then eventually she does
she's like you know what we kissed once
so I'm like oh they're they're maybe
there's a spark there let's pursue it
you have money right what you got yeah
yeah then there's a spark you know what
so suddenly there's a spark that's weird
and then they fall in love but it's so
nice but they have to break up of course
they have to break up why why do they
break up anyone have the answer anyone
can anyone tell me why these two people
who are in love he bought a restaurant
just to woo her just to be near her she
told him that she wasn't attracted to
him and he was like you know what I will
persevere because that's how much I want
you and do you know why why they break
up it's because he
get this he wants to participate in an
underground fighting tournament I want
to become the ultimate fighting champion
and she doesn't approve you wanna what
oh I just love the show Friends it's so
grounded in reality all of a sudden
there was a billionaire Who Wants to Be
an MMA fighter except he's so bad that
he gets his ass kicked and he's in a
full body cast and that's the reason why
Monica can't be with him and I just I
can't get over that part because the
show handles relationships in a pretty
real way even in like the guest
appearances I think about Ben Stiller
right he doesn't show Rachel his true
side but Ross sees it and tries to
convince Rachel that the guy's no good
he's so funny this is this is actually
so great he's yelling at the animals and
I love that because [ __ ] the animals
sorry did I mention I'm getting a little
loose but the relationship works the
mustache guy right Minsk guy sometimes
there's extraordinary events but for the
most part all of it is grounded in very
real events and emotions like he Minsk
guy he has to to go abroad to chase his
dream mustache guy he doesn't want any
more kids and Monica wants a family she
wants all of that there's real emotion
that happens inside of these
relationships and then there's this
there's like oh hey I'm in a full body
cast I can't move I want painkillers I
don't even know what I'm saying but I I
really want to be an MMA fighter and I'm
gonna choose the life of fighting over
you the woman I've pursued with just
incredible Vigor come on really
[Music]
we're also going to touch on another
controversial relationship
Rachel
and Joey we're gonna talk about this a
lot more but the propaganda starts here
in season three she decides to read his
favorite book and in exchange he reads
her favorite book I love this plotline
watching Rachel and Joey invest in each
other's stories there's something so I
don't know I warm my hearts and let me
let me tell you something guys men men
any men listening to me how do I get a
girl I don't know how to do it I have I
have a cheat code and I'm not joking in
the slightest here I know I've been
drinking I have the true you want to
know how to win a girl's heart
read her favorite book did you just hear
that
gasp 's from every woman alive realizing
that I've cracked their code and you
know what it doesn't matter it doesn't
matter that they know that I know and
that you know it's still gonna work read
her favorite book let her talk about her
favorite book have an actual opinion in
an actual conversation about it I
guarantee you there's nothing bad that
can happen you could have the worst
opinions the fact that you read her
favorite book and how you feel
passionate about it it's just like you
know she's like
they love it look at how Rachel reacts
to Joey having read her favorite book
look at this look at these contact look
at this contact you're here it's a
little bit unfortunate but I also do
need to do something that I don't want
to do and that is hold Ross accountable
not only is he not supportive of
Rachel's career it would be nice if
you'd realize that it's just a job just
a job yes
but he also forces his way in between
her and a colleague because of jealousy
she was originally gonna go with an
attractive male colleague to a fashion
lecture and Ross is like I would love to
go really just to get in the way and
then he falls asleep
it's just douchey Behavior like you know
how much she likes this it's just
they're not a good couple and also she
she hates his dinosaur stuff too so this
is a two-way street here eventually when
they do break up I
listen listen Ross I either hate him
he's so funny when he's hearing the
breakup message that Rachel left just
listen to this listen to this
I love you I love you let's stop
focusing on Ross and Rachel and focus on
another unexpected Duo and a very
Dynamic one at that and that is Chandler
and Rachel they're so good together
comedically did you or did you not tell
him that I was looking for a serious
relationship I absolutely did you
I'm sure you're right but why you know
you should never be allowed to talk to
people I know Chandler gets a lot of the
laughs we're still in season three I
want to wait till like season five but
like Jennifer Aniston outside of Ross
she brings the most to this show of any
of the characters like I she's so good
all the characters every single one have
their moments they all shine brightly
but her she might Shine the brightest
next to rust the rest of episode 20 is
also really great the one with the doll
houses uh Monaco won't let Phoebe play
with her dollhouse in a way that Phoebe
wants to play all right Phoebe you know
what that's it no dinosaurs no Ghosts no
giant dogs okay I'm dinosaur we're not
welcome in the house of no imagination
so Phoebe creates her own dollhouse and
it's so much cooler than Monica's look
everybody look at my new dollhouse this
is the coolest house ever it's a great
Phoebe plot and you'll notice uh I don't
really talk about Phoebe much why is
that Dylan Dylan hello why is that sir
I've realized now after finishing the
show you are either in one of two camps
you either love Phoebe and all our
quirkiness and everything that she
brings or you stay silent about her
because those that do love her are
psychopaths and they will hurt you so
you just remain silent and hope that
they don't come for you I did watch some
of the bloopers though a comprehensive
watch of friends even watching bloopers
I think she has my favorite line of all
the bloopers I've seen the best quip go
ahead phoebs doesn't then go to
Smithfield Day School yeah you go there
too
pretty good Phoebe lovers take that as a
tree and do not come for me please thank
you I will say like this is my first
time watching friends all the way
through and I'm sure I'll go back to it
a couple more times throughout the rest
of my life but even as I was collecting
the clips to to put on the screen since
you guys could watch along with me I
found her more enjoyable the second time
around I think I'm gonna grow more fun
of Phoebe over time and I think
especially uh when I saw the reunion
Lady Gaga came and sang smelly cat at
the end uh Lady Gaga says thank you
Phoebe for being the weird one uh a lot
of us related to your character kind of
like the outsider who didn't fit in it
resonated with a lot of people and I
just think Phoebe's character was never
one that resonated a lot with me and
maybe that's why I didn't like her as
much I just think she just brought a lot
of Comedy that was a little too far out
there I like comedy that's grounded in
realism a little bit more maybe like
should you just say the most out of
pocket things like the friends could
just be having a normal conversation and
she'd be like oh that reminds me of a
time I got human traffic to Saudi Arabia
that I smoke crack off a camel's back
and it's like Phoebe what the
Cliffhanger for season three right so
we're at the end here Ross has a choice
to make right he's currently dating this
woman right here but he now knows that
Rachel she still has feelings for him
and now Ross has to decide between
whether he chooses Rachel or his new
girlfriend
[Music]
so on one door here we have Rachel a
three season long love interest who
everyone is rooting for you have this
side we have the brand new girlfriend
who has introduced one episode ago who
no one cares about also she's bald now
Hi
and then we Fade to Black oh no who is
he gonna pick I have no clue but first
before we get to season four we have the
season three MVP let's see who the
academy has given the award to this
season
[Music]
your choice it says here that the
academy is granting me my own MVP I get
to choose season three MVP that's on me
let me think here oh this is this is so
sudden of a development I haven't had
time to think this over I want to give
it to Monica she carried several
romantic arcs this season and she's the
glue that holds the group together she
deserves an MVP award but this season's
MVP is Ross
oh what's that oh no I it's not Monica I
just said I'd like to give the MVP to
Monica I wanted to but how can you deny
this beef day he deserves it season four
something frothy just came up and then
taste bad it was just really frothy
listen I don't know what it is but
season four episode one hits all the
jokes are on point all the actors are
locked in very crisp very well done
episode out of every season opener of
friends I think season Four's opener is
the best of them all of course we pick
up from the Cliffhanger and uh shocker
Ross chooses Rachel Rachel she doesn't
make it that easy right Ross before they
get back together he has to read 18
Pages 18 Pages back and front front and
back that contain all of our feelings
she wrote it all down for him to read
and consume and Ross is like 18 Pages
what is this
Magna Carta
what Magna Carta isn't long hold on let
me let me try again let me try a new
joke Ross is like 18 Pages what is this
the sum of Dylan's book that he's been
writing for eight years ah actually that
one hurts I don't like that one what is
this Sun Tzu's The Art of War
boom too late though that's too late
it's too late Ross falls asleep while
reading it because it's it's super early
in the morning so he goes on to the
kitchen to read it and he falls asleep
and then Rachel comes in and she's like
hey he's reading it he's like of course
I read it this is super important and
then she asks the cryptic does it does
it and he's like
I don't know what that means in his head
he's trying to decipher it does it
does it
does it it works so well that's when
sitcoms are at their best it's when one
character is completely in the dark and
then they just have to roll with it
that's where so much comedy comes from I
have decided that that it
does
episode one also has the uh the trio of
Monica Chandler and Joey great Trio and
they have a subplot where Chandler pees
on Monica
it's a little King play don't worry
about it okay okay so it's it's because
you come back it's because Monica got
stung by a jellyfish a way to relieve
the pain is to pee on it I think they
overplay that plot a little bit because
it's it's not that embarrassing because
they treat it like we could never tell a
soul we take this to our Graves no one
can ever find out about this in reality
it's kind of just like a fun story to
tell your friends where everyone goes ah
gross because like these friends know a
lot about each other and it's not all
flattering this story where Monica got
stung by a jellyfish and the best way to
relieve it is you know getting peed on
like Ross knows it's the best way to
relieve a jellyfish sting quickly right
so like scientifically you got that with
Ross Phoebe she lived on the streets I
would wager Phoebe peed on before in her
life right so she I don't think she'd
find it that weird and then Rachel she
probably find it a little weird but
she'd be outnumbered by Ross and Phoebe
so I think they overplay it a bit I
don't think it's that big of a deal Joey
we swore we'd never tell they'll never
understand episode 3 has such good
Rachel Chandler humor one of the ways
that I think friends could have been
even better is they should have paired
Chandler and Rachel for more subplots I
think they work so well together I also
think uh Ross and Monica should have
been paired for more subplots because
they're wonderful together but I think
of all the Duos I think Rachel and
Chandler together are the best I haven't
written down here that the worst laugh
track noise ever recorded here was in
episode 4 at 11 33 should we queue it up
see if I was right
[Laughter]
episode four has a nice cute little Joey
subplot where he learns how to dance
with the landlord so that the landlord
doesn't kick out the girls it's very
cute and it just reminds me that Joey
most of his plots just go nowhere even
Phoebe eventually gets a love interest
Joey gets nothing the most success that
Joey gets is he gets rehired onto a soap
opera that's like that's like his
characters I'm just so pissed we'll talk
about it later episode six has one of
the best subplots of any episode ever
it's when Ross he starts dating a
gorgeous woman and she invites him back
to her place except her place is trash
it is disgusting it is a mess listen to
this listen to this listen to this yes
Department of Sanitation
that's so funny and then when he sticks
his hand in Black goo oh I was dying
laughing this was so good this episode
also has a plot where uh Chandler falls
in love with Joey's girlfriends Chandler
kisses her and then she tells Joey we
can't be together because I've met
someone else and then Chandler has to be
like hey
I'm not someone else it hurts Joey so
deeply because Joey is such a loyal guy
I would never do that to you and to see
his best friend do this to him I'm gonna
be honest Chandler does this to Joey
like like four times throughout the show
he does something that like hurts Joey
deeply he also helps Joey in a lot of
ways but like this is a recurring theme
with Chandler but in this case where
Joey kisses the girlfriend he at least
makes it up to Julie bye laying in a box
it's a real thing Chandler and
Yolanda are so good together I mean the
only reason Chandler did what he did the
only reason he kissed Joey's girlfriends
Yolanda is because he cared about her so
much like they just have such a close
connection they understand each other
they want to be with each other so badly
these two are just madly in love with
each other and Joey can't stand in the
way these two eventually get married and
spend the next 57 Seasons together it's
wonderful
oh wait what's that no she cheats on him
you were great and uh Nick ditto clearly
you're having sex with them good thing
Chandler snake his best friend to get
this loyal woman season four also has
the great swap I love these plots so
Chandler and Joey they make a bet with
Monica and Rachel they're gonna play a
little game and whoever wins they get a
prize Joey and Chandler win
and they get the apartments so they swap
apartments and I love these plots
because they just add spice it just it
gives characters something to do for the
next couple episodes so Monica like
trying to make the smaller Apartments
like the new hangout spot she tries to
redecorate it tries to make food and try
to get people to come on over somebody
seems to be missing being the hostess
season four is actually also when the
greatest character in all of friends
history is introduced the name
Emily she's so wonderful perhaps
everybody collapse Emily is so perfect
because at first you don't love her you
just kind of dislike her but then over
time you grow to hate her more and more
it's a fun art and since I can't hate on
Phoebe because I'll fear for my life
I'll instead hate on Emily twice as hard
why is she annoying
she's British for one need I say more
I'm I'm kidding I'm kidding I enjoy
Prince I employ one in fact it's the
least I could do for the crime that my
country has committed in destroying them
in a war Joe is that joke okay with you
it's okay with him he's fine with it
he's fine with it it's fine Emily is
just so rarely Pleasant turns out I'm
not free tonight so really well that's
just lovely isn't it I must have missed
your call even though I didn't leave the
flat all day good night it was very nice
to meet you all
and worse she's around for a while like
Ross decides to marry her one good thing
from that though is that uh Monica she's
a marriage and family obsessed is part
of her character and uh she goes to pick
up Emily's dress and she just she feels
compulsed to wear it so she even as
she's doing the dishes she puts the
dresses on and then Phoebe comes over
and then Phoebe's wearing a dress and
then at the end of the episode Rachel's
depressed and they're like hey Rachel
you want to know how we'll feel better
and then they all put on dresses I
thought that was super funny hey you
know I'm gonna cheer you up what
yeah
speaking of Rachel she's growing as a
character and they're they're exploring
more and more what to do with her
character and for the first time I
believe for the first time she becomes a
pursuer rather than the pursuant she
starts pursuing Marissa's dad Marissa
from the OC obviously and this is her
dad and this is the first time we've
seen
I think Rachel be the pursuer and let me
tell you she is
cringy which is what she's going for as
an actress as the writers are going for
like they nail it but I could not cringe
any harder like she does this over
multiple episodes but in one episode
where she invites Marissa's dad to a
party she's like ah I gotta tie a cherry
uh Cherry stem with uh with my tongue
and so she she puts a cherry stem in her
mouth and tries to tie it and then she
said she starts coughing you know I can
tie one of these into a knot using just
my tongue
laughs
you're right and then she suggests they
play spin the bottle so she could kiss
him and then they get distracted and
then she's like on the ground and she's
like sniffing his leg yeah oh I couldn't
I can't and then when she fails to win
his attention she's like I'm gonna go
put on my old high school cheerleader
uniform
and then she decides to do a cheer for
him
she does like a a cartwheel oh hey this
I oh
this is one of the angriest moments I've
been with all friends they do this
really lame sitcom thing where instead
of like getting a stunt coordinator and
filming it in a unique way instead
they're like Rachel's doing a cartwheel
oh no there's a crash sound effect as
she went off screen
there's no humor in that and not seeing
it and falling off screen this is season
four of friends and you're doing falling
off screen jokes you don't have the
budget what do you I would love I would
love to see the budget of friends in
later Seasons they started making just
crazy amounts of money but even in like
season four where's your budgets because
this joke sucks when she falls off
screen and I was like no I'm okay I just
got hurt badly it's like that's not
funny and that plot line it actually
ties up with the wedding dresses I was
talking about because when Rachel finds
out Ross is getting married she feels
like competitive and left out and like
emotionally vulnerable and she's like
maybe I should get married as well maybe
I should just spoil the moment do it
because Ross did it I should do it too
so she's like hey Marissa's Dad how
about we get married what if we got
married
now keep in mind they've been on four
dates this guy just got divorced and his
divorce is even finalized and he's like
no and then later he comes by this is
the end of the uh the episode where uh
they put on the dresses the three girls
are sitting there with the dresses on it
did my best to convince him that I'm not
some crazy girl who is dying to get
married and I'm just going through a
hard time hey you know I might cheer you
up and then they open the door and he's
there I gotta go
speaking of Ross's marriage to Emily uh
he has to pick a best man and he
eventually settles on Joey after some
comedic happenings you know how it goes
and it eventually leads to them calling
a stripper to Chandler's office don't
worry about how we got here but Ross
says something so funny that Joey breaks
look at this they just left this in look
at look at Joseph here look at little
JoJo he's full-on breaking this is an
aggressive breaking of character and
they just left it in I don't blame I
don't blame Joey for breaking I don't
blame him at all dross is just too funny
I get it in the end Joey screwed up and
lost the ring the duck ate it
and Joey tries to relinquish his his
role he said let let Chandler be the
best man Chandler is the best man for
the job and Ross is like you know what
no I want both you guys I don't want a
best man I want to I want best mans I
want best men I want a best Cadre is
that a lot I don't care it's America
it's allowed oh they don't get married
in America they get married in uh uh
[Music]
you know
not America Cliffhanger for season four
Ross giving his vows he accidentally
whoops oopsie Daisy he calls Emily
Rachel hi Ross Take the Emily take thee
Rachel how will that turn out we'll find
out when we cover the next season but
first season four is MVP
who could it be I was told that the
academy struggled with season Four's MVP
because there were a lot of standout
performances MVP of season four goes to
Ross
congratulations Ross he won this
specifically because he burned Emily on
her wedding day nice take the Rachel
good luck Ross it's what she deserves
see you later Emily well actually she's
still here technically well let's talk
about it season five
[Music]
very good very good really really good
day two for me yeah you guys won't
notice much different except my attire
I'm going for Chic Explorer what do you
guys think does it work
oh that's right you can't answer I can't
hear you oh God Emily all right let's
power through this Emily she's off the
show now I mean kinda she's very clearly
not in the first episode of season five
look right here I I can promise you this
is not Emily this is a woman in a wig
but they did they did get their shots
right which is just recorded in a
completely separate location but the
first episode Emily is she locks herself
away in a bathroom and Ross makes sure
he makes sure not to be able to see into
that room because then we can see
Emily's not in there so he just kind of
sneaks on right out through there
apparently the show had meant for Emily
to become like a major player going
forward like she was gonna marry Ross
and move to New York and I am so happy
that the actress was not about it she
wasn't a fan she has a she has some
quotes what was this she called the show
a gilded prison just because of the the
fame that it brought she also didn't
like the fact that uh she felt like she
was just there to make some quick jokes
about England but I like those jokes so
I don't think that's a problem sorry Joe
your country is just asking for it I'm
just happy she's gone right well
she's there a little bit she's on the
phone for a couple episodes but she's
mostly gone so let's move on from Emily
and talk nice about Phoebe fevers you
guys know how I love the verbs she has
uh one of my favorite jokes of Phoebe's
is actually in the first episode of
season five when Ross said the wrong
name which by the way I I'm so surprised
that they continued on with the wedding
like he said the name of his ex as he
was saying his vows it's like hmm maybe
we should just like post pause maybe
postpone but instead I was like no no
hold on let's bind our souls for
eternity first and then we'll see but
Phoebe tries to come in clutch because
she was on the phone she heard you know
she got the pregnant she's pregnant with
triplets for brothers she there's her
brother's babies are inside of her
you're lucky I'm not talking about
Phoebe because how Wild is that I do
like that there's a season 9 moment with
her and Mike where she references having
her brother's triplets and then Mike is
like
I'm sorry I guess it just brings back
memories you know from when I gave birth
to my brother's triplets and I had to
give them up
I haven't told you about that yet have I
we're not there yet she's got the
triplets she couldn't go on the flight
because she heard due date was coming up
so she uh she's on the phone she heard
Ross say the wrong name and so she calls
the Mother-in-law Emily's mother and uh
she's like this is Dr Fallon Jay Ross
forgot to take his right medication
[Music]
great Phoebe impression I just over the
over time watching the show I picked it
up it's like second nature to me Ross
forgot to take his brain medicine Ross
forgot to take his brown marakashan and
the mother-in-law is like Phoebe that's
you and she's like oh no that's not fair
um oh you must need the bread medication
too oh girl Phoebe no not Phoebe Dr Phil
Angie it's funny it's a little bit dumb
it's a dumb bit
but so am I so I liked it you know so
Emily flees uh he Frost can't find her
and uh he's at the airport because he's
supposed to be going on his honeymoon
now Rachel she booked the last minute
flight so she doesn't have a flight back
so she meets Ross in the airport and
she's like maybe you should go on your
honeymoon Ross is like you know what I
should and you should come with me why
don't you come you can lay on the beach
and and I can cry over my failed
marriage and she decides you know what
absolutely let's go on a honeymoon
together she's still in love with him
remember she went to England to break up
his wedding to tell him and she still
has feelings for him you might think hey
Dylan that's probably Ross is making a
mistake here you probably shouldn't say
her name and then also invite her to the
the honeymoon but to that I say don't
you [ __ ] dare question Ross he is a
three-time MVP winner all right he
doesn't need to answer to any of us
Emily comes and then that's when that's
when we get this shot where uh it's
clearly not her oh but then we turn
around it's a different location don't
worry about it they Stitch it together
it's fine whatever she's out of the show
I don't care let me get some props to
the camera guys look at this look at
this ready you are about to watch what's
known as a rack Focus that's when the
focus shifts from either the foreground
to the background or the background to
the foreground ready watch one two three
now I'll do it ah I just want to say how
good is that but to be honest that's
like the most basic camera trick you
know what's so funny is like that I
could I can't express to you how simple
and basic that was but that is the only
time friends ever did anything
interesting with a camera I had to
rewind it to make sure I saw it
correctly one of my favorite and most
underrated moments in all of friends I I
cannot tell you how much I love this no
one is ever gonna talk about this but me
when Monica is showing Rachel's some of
the photographs from the wedding you
know how Monica is pretty neurotic about
cleanliness and such so she hands Rachel
the photos and Rachel isn't like that at
all
Honey by the edges I mean you know I'm
just gonna have to accept it I mean it's
my three edges fingers smudgy oh my God
I love that so much I think the reason I
like that so much is it reminds me of
season one and how they were the
organicism which by the way I went and
looked up that's a word baby there's an
organicism to this right they feel like
a friend group it's just so within both
of their characters and it just shows
that they're they're so tight because
Rachel just does something that would
piss Monica off and she just does it in
spitefully but they're still great
friends you know like that just feels so
real to me Rachel here in season five
Aloha baby Rachel here in season five
she's also becoming dare I say the
funniest friend it's the second episode
and she's consoling Ross because she
wants to get back together with Ross
right so she's gonna be there for him
she's got a plan Monica is trying to
keep them apart and uh Rachel they're
having a little spat and uh Rachel can't
think of a comeback leave Ross alone and
go get Dave
what the hell are you trying to do well
so she's just thinking and then thinking
and thinking and all of a sudden she
like throws the clothes on the ground
runs inside locks the door that's that's
awesome man I Rachel
well let's swing back actually and talk
about Chandler Monica we can finally
talk about it in full now because guess
what they're a couple in the last
episode of uh season four Monica's
underneath Chandler's sheets and uh that
must have been so much fun watching and
like I at a week to week basis there was
some preamble to it but they alluded to
it and they're like that's never gonna
happen and then it happens so they set
up your expectation to like hey no no no
we thought about it no it's not
happening and then they do it it's so
fun they also want to keep their
relationship as Secrets because uh uh
reasons I think there's like some
[ __ ] already Jesus how is this how did
this creep up on me so fast sneaking
around stuff not that fun like when when
Chandler is caught kissing Monica and so
then he goes and kisses everyone who
comes in oh he picked that up in England
that's just a that's a British thing
what the hell was that probably some
European goodbye thing you picked up in
London actually I didn't think it was
that funny I think the crowd probably
thought it was pretty funny so I'll give
it a pass but then there's the morning
when Monica sneaks across the hallway to
come visit Chandler in the middle of the
night it's 3 A.M she comes in and
they're being sneaky cautious right and
then Chandler he slams the door
which wakes Joey up like the whole point
of coming over at night in the middle of
the night so that they could be together
secretly and then Chandler just like
bangs loudly
well let me rephrase that Chandler slams
the door loudly it wakes Joey up and
Joey comes out he's like oh what time is
it Monica why are you here Monica and
they're just like easy there's a mouse
in my apartment there's a bug in my
apartment I needed someone to kill it I
couldn't do it there's like uh there's a
Litany of excuses that you could come up
with and that would be passive but
instead Monica and Chandler try to
convince Joey that instead of being 3
A.M it's 9 A.M what time is it uh nine
but it's darker well that's because you
always sleep till noon silly this is
what nine looks like as if Joey has
never been awake at 9am in his life and
he just wouldn't know
I'm gonna talk about Joey's stupidity a
little bit later because I don't like I
kind of like that he's dumb and then
they made him dumb all the time which I
know some people don't like I like that
I'll talk about a little bit later but
this this is just like no I don't I
don't buy that I just can't I you cannot
convince me that he's that dumb however
once Joey finds out that's when the fun
begins because Joey has just the best
reaction it's one of the highlights of
the series his eyes get all big and he
starts oh you know and then they have to
pull him in and then reveal it to him
and and you
happen in London in London
and then slowly over the next couple
episodes the other friends are gonna
find out at like just one at a time and
Joey has to keep it a secret he doesn't
know who he has to keep it a secret from
they're trying to pull information out
of the Joey Joey's trying to pull
information out of them he doesn't know
who knows what he doesn't want to hold
the secret anymore I am tired of being
the guy who knows all the secrets and
can't tell anyone also in order to
maintain Chandler and Monica's secret he
has to take certain bullets
a video camera oh my God I can't believe
you thought that you're gonna videotape
us having sex on the first date
I make low budget adult films this is a
lot of good moments and then everyone
finding out like Ah that's just those
couple episodes are very fun
you want to know what's not fun
Segway Ross and Rachel
they continue to push me off Rachel went
to England to break up Ross's wedding my
mind just flashed to the uh the first
episode when uh Rachel is talking to
Monica and Rachel's like hey I I can go
after Ross now right like he said my
name and there it looks like they're
probably gonna get annulled or divorced
or something right it's okay right and
the Monarch is like hey if you don't
understand that it's wrong I can't help
you and then Rachel does this she says
this he's married if you don't realize
that I can't help you okay you're right
can't help me just Exquisite line
delivery that's so funny but she's hard
pursuing Ross in the next couple of
episodes
I'm still in love with you
Ross and then finally the divorce is
finalized and Ross and Emily no longer
together she's out of the show I think
okay Rachel is hard pursuing Ross and
Ross had her name you probably segue
back into that uh that relationship
right
nope as soon as Ross gets divorced
Rachel's like oh you know what I guess
I'm not that interested in Ross right
now you know he just got divorced I'm
not really into guys who just got
divorces like what
what were you expecting you were
pursuing a guy while he was like married
and trying to work through his marriage
but as soon as he gets the divorce
you're like no no more no more for me
please like you just dated a guy who's
divorce wasn't even finalized just last
season oh my God I what is the show
doing I don't know how the the rationale
of that in like the course of like a
week Rachel went from I'm gonna fly
across the world across the ocean to
tell a guy that I love him and I want to
be with him and that he should give up
another woman not bind his soul for
eternity with that woman so he could be
with me and then a week later she's like
you know what I'm not that into it
anymore like what
I couldn't cheer for Ross and Rachel
anymore like that just pissed me off so
hard episode 8 of season five is the
Thanksgiving episode and it's I want to
say it's one of the my least favorite
episodes of friends and I'm gonna be in
the minority on this one I think a lot
of people are gonna love this episode
because it was like showing Chandler and
Monica's Origins but I liked that
Chandler and Monica we're just kind of
like somewhat acquainted through Ross
but they just never really interacted
too much and then they became good
friends but now now we're getting all
what is what is this what is this no no
no
no they don't have to be Ross and Rachel
were they they have like a long history
that's complicated and they there's like
a long tension between them no they
didn't have to be flirty in the past
they could just be they could be what
they were and it was perfect but then
you go back and you're like okay we need
to add some attention now they're
getting together we need to add some
like past sexual attention now no you
don't just leave them the way they were
also like I know they retcon this
because Chandler we find out in this
episode he lost his pinky toe what like
or part of his pinky toe Monica dropped
a knife that chopped off one of his toes
a little piggy that went to the market
it's gone now he stayed at the market
it's gone forever just like my father
went to the market one day and not not
come back and I know it's retcon because
like we've talked about Chandler's third
nipple we have a third nipple that was
the same episode where Chandler
struggled with the idea of a girl
missing her leg and then it was revealed
that Chandler also has a deformity like
he gets over it he's like oh it's pretty
shallow to not like somebody because of
a deformity and then she finds out he
has a third nipple and she's like oh no
I'm out which that's where the comedy is
he has to overcome uh this like
Prejudice in his head and then she finds
out something about him and then she
falls prey to that prejudice it's funny
but if we're doing an episode about a
girl who has had part of her body
sheist
50 50. that's correct part of her body
has been removed from her and they're
like dude it's her leg Chandler's
missing if he was missing a toe that
would have come up we would have known
about this and we've known Chandler has
always hated thanksgivings and the fact
that he lost his toe on a Thanksgiving
never came up that was never revealed
dog I can't I oh I hate this episode so
much I just know that you just thought
of all this on the spot and now you're
trying to add it in like it's always
been the Case episode nine oh it's a
doozy three plots three bangers all
three plots are phenomenal first is the
the Joey Monica Chandler and Joey has to
cover for uh for Monica and Chandler
because they're they're very sloppy with
their hidden romance he needs to cover
for them we've talked about that a
little bit and then there's Rachel and
Phoebe see Phoebe's going to a book club
and Rachel wants to join so on the first
day Rachel doesn't do the assignment she
doesn't do the reading which is like why
why would you go to the book club if you
didn't
I whatever I don't care like it's a
voluntary thing like you don't have to
go like if you didn't read it you
shouldn't oh my God so then Bibi
describes some of her thoughts to Rachel
and then Rachel gets called on to uh to
give her thoughts and she steals baby's
thoughts so she doesn't have any other
answer then the Teacher Calls on Phoebe
because he's like oh I I agree with
Rachel and she looks like an idiot and
like she didn't do the assignment so
Phoebe tries to get her revenge and it's
so funny so the next week Rachel again
didn't read the book and so Phoebe gives
her like some fake information that's so
out there Jane Eyre you'd think she's a
woman she's not she's a cyborg
isn't that like a robot and then Rachel
pipes up she's like oh I have some
thoughts and then it's the stupidest
thing the book was so uh ahead of its
time if you're talking about feminism I
think you're right feminism yes but also
the robots I love that I thought that
was so funny and I kind of wish like
there was just so much plot going on in
the episode I think that that could have
been expanded more because there was so
much more humor I think they could have
explored with that plot but even as it
was I thought it was really fun the
final plot is Ross and his sandwich you
ate my sandwich
through my room my sandwich away that's
a famous a friends thing Ross has a post
Thanksgiving sandwich see Monica is a
chef she makes wonderful food and then
with the leftovers Ross makes a sandwich
and he's looking forward to it
especially this year because uh he's
coming off a divorce someone ate the
only good thing going on in my life his
life is a little bit upside down at the
moment and so when someone eats his
sandwich at work he gets pretty upset
my sandwich
it sends him into a rage and uh one of
the highlights of the season one of the
highlights of the entire show roster
sandwich and all around just a classic
episode let's talk about fashion for a
moment I am clearly one who can speak on
this being extremely fashionable
they even make bad job like I'm actually
really dressed well if I went out I'd be
like who's that guy he's dressed so well
and then people would be like why is
that guy talking to himself in a mirror
Ross
leather pants
he pulls him off not gonna lie I
consider buying leather pants I had to
remember it's like when you look at
clothes online like a model is wearing
those clothes you're not gonna look the
same as those models too I'm looking at
the beefiest of cakes here this man is
Ultimate Beefcake material I'm not gonna
look like that I can't buy the leather
pants but the friend's trying to tell
them they're like hey yeah they don't
look good in the leather pants
false fall out my jaw almost dislocated
there I'm just like I'm so passionate
about how the friends try to bring him
down when he made such a bold and
courageous choice and it paid off and
they're trying to act like it didn't
they're all just jealous I think that's
what I tell myself when people make fun
of my wardrobe well Ross is on a date
and uh he gets a little warm so he's
like I I need a little fresh air these
uh these pants while they're pants they
retain heat too much and my my balls are
like heaters right now just warming this
whole place up so he goes to the
bathroom and he takes his pants off and
uh he realizes that with the heat the
leather has shrunk and now he can't get
the pants back up so he tries a bunch of
stuff it goes horribly wrong it's it's
super comedic It's a Wonderful plot I
think as a as a guy we've all been there
our pants are down we can't get it up
not hold on hey you want to hear
something funny about Emily uh it's been
like
a day and a half since her and Ross
officially got divorced and uh she's
getting married
what this blew my mind so hard just for
how useless this development was Ross
comes in and he's like hey my ex-wife
who I just we like our wedding was like
three weeks ago and now she's getting
married to somebody else
we never talk or hear about Emily like
ever again so I don't know why you had
to like marry her off so quickly I think
my guess is they're trying to be like oh
we're moving on from Emily stuff and
we're gonna make sure to like write her
out of the show officially like we can
never open that door again he's like
yeah Emily she's gonna marry someone
else she's off the table and forever you
could have just moved on I it just felt
so weird like the woman was she
married to Rob
like a week ago what are you doing I
know a lot of people love Chandler and
Monica together and uh they are they're
a really good couple a vast majority of
their plots are so boring from like a
healthy relationship standpoint I like
them as a couple from an interesting
standpoint I I hate them a part of that
too is like I think it's I know I know
uh Matthew Perry went through a lot of
like substance abuse issues because
there was episodes where he's like
reigning it in so hard and there's
episodes where like he's like almost
like slurring his way through when he
brings it it's very good but he didn't
bring it all the time but there's a plot
episode 13 Monica gives bad massages and
Chandler doesn't have the heart to tell
her that her massages aren't very good
that sounds really boring I can't tell
you how much I'm not looking forward to
a moment in the future where I have to
talk about
Chandler and Monica and the maid you
know what that's a problem for future
Dylan I that guy's gonna be way drunker
hopefully we'll be fine at that point in
fact let's get there a little bit
quicker if we can
more and more and more more money
and we Stir It Up Stir It Up nice and
good Rachel gets a new love interest his
name is Danny
he's barely into Rachel at first so we
get to do more of that Rachel pursuing
thing are you guys ever gonna go out
again
party at my place on Saturday
I'm really looking forward to it okay
see eventually one episode all of a
sudden he's super into Rachel but he's
also supered into his sister I'm
starting to feel like a little bit how
uh how much the writer room was just
like hey let's just throw this plot at
the wall and see if it works and if not
we'll just we'll just abandon it and
never talk about it again leave it to
friends though to bounce back the very
next episode this is the episode where
everyone finds out the episode begins
with uh Phoebe Rachel they're at the new
apartment of Ross Rachel already knows
pbc's Chandler and Monica just doing it
in front of the window which is like
pretty bold they're like exhibitionists
like just how many times they're caught
doing it by the window without the
curtains closed are there even curtains
I don't think the curtains have ever
been closed on that window it's
incredibly High jinxy how it all plays
out where they're like oh rocks let's
celebrate this cool apartment and then
for us he does this
just elevates a great comedic [ __ ] I
gotta knock Ross again though because
when Ross finds out
my sister
he like rushes over and he does this
with the door trying to get in that's
funny but then he chases Chandler around
the table
one thing I'll say that the show did
poorly is physical comedy I don't think
they ever really did that well maybe a
joke here and there hey Tribbiani give
me that coffee nah
they could have leaned into it very
simply in a lot of different situations
and they never did and you don't want
characters like falling around and
bumbling around all the time because
then it becomes a little bit uh
cartoonish but here and there it adds
humor in a very simple and uh pretty
common way but he just chases Chandler
around the table once and then I don't
know like knock a chair over there's
something there that could have been
explored and it just it was so it wasn't
good
and I'm going to give another
controversial oh that's strong oh I'm
gonna give another controversial opinion
the pivot scene
I don't I don't even think I smiled it
wasn't funny at all
that I think maybe it would it was funny
like when it first aired because then
everyone the next day coming through the
door they're like hey I got a pave that
through the door and then they gotta
laugh because they all watch the episode
but Ross hitting on the pizza delivery
driver now that is comedy so just for
context uh the pizza delivery driver she
brings a pizza to Chandler and they're
talking about her haircut she's like oh
it makes me look like an eight-year-old
boy so next time she brings a pizza Ross
is gonna prove his flirting skills so he
opens the door and he says this by the
way if it makes you feel any better uh I
happen to like eight-year-old boys
the rest of that episode he just keeps
going he keeps trying to flirt and it
just never works you know that smell gas
has
was I talking to her about gas
that oh that's that's actually a good
plot last two episodes of the Season
just like in season three where they
went to the beach house in season four
they had the wedding venue and now in
season five just for like the last two
episodes they decided to like spring
their extra Budget on a new set and the
gang is all going to Vegas I love it
because it gets us out of the coffee
house it gets us out of the the two
apartments or I guess the three
apartments with Ross's as well I like
seeing extra new sets it gives I don't
know just it refreshes the show a bit it
is almost ruined by the dumbest Chandler
and Monica fights so Monica met up with
uh with mustache and Chandler doesn't
like that but you can see both sides it
sets up for a good argument but then
Chandler's like you know what I'm being
dumb I'm gonna go talk to Monica and
Monica is also feeling bad so she's like
I'm gonna go talk to Chandler but on her
way to to the room she walks by a table
and puts a trip down just because she
found it on the floor and she wins and
she keeps winning she's having a blast
so Chandler comes down to make up with
Monica and he sees her gambling at a
table in Vegas and having a good time
and he just gets so pouty I this is
probably the least I've ever respected
Chandler in the entire show because he
turns around and then they fade to black
as if this is like some Monumental issue
in their relationship what are you angry
about bro you're in Vegas she's in Vegas
she's at a table playing craps who cares
God he's so annoying at a worse because
the next episode picks up with Chandler
with the with his bag slung around his
shoulder he's like bye Monica I'm
leaving I'm going home see you later mom
but Taylor what are you doing what does
it look like I'm going home so then
Monica's like no no don't leave because
she thinks he's actually gonna go and
she's like come on like I want you to
stay and then they make up and it comes
out that Chandler hey nothing in the bag
the bag was empty he was Never Gonna
Leave
okay this is empty the the the level of
just pathetic energy I got from that he
wanted to like just make a scene like he
he's not like a 21 year old kid like
this is a grown man
who's about to marry her and he's
throwing these pouty little Tantrums to
try to like inflict poor feelings into
Monica so she feels bad for him I don't
know I don't know just just deep levels
of disrespect I have for Chandler right
now Cliffhanger is great though because
uh Chandler Monika like you know what
let's just get married here and now and
then they go to uh like the the wedding
house the house or wedding uh what do
you call those I should know this oh no
only they're too late because out comes
Ross and Rachel pitch like a couple of
baboons on a tire swing
[Music]
it's a saying you gotta you gotta be
from the south to get it though so let's
quickly do uh the ceremony for season
five the MVP this season's MVP
is Rachel
z x Ross congratulations no kidding I'm
kidding I'm kidding it is actually
racial she has become such a force on
the show that as much as I want to just
continuously give it to Ross I can't
because her performance in the show is
just accelerating so quickly and I think
season five is her at her best and also
how did the season end
her marrying a three-time MVP winner
that's MVP energy right there is this
the crawl into the Lion's Den with the
lion I respect it it's bold season six
PB comes out with one of the best lines
just early on right on right out of the
gates Joey's talking about like hey
let's renew our friendship and she says
a fronts are you asking me to have a
friend of songs I just like that so much
I don't know why I just did hey remember
when uh when Ross and Rachel got married
and they were drunk and they didn't
realize and when they do find out oh
this is just a couple of MVPs showing
off hello we didn't get married
and over the next couple episodes uh
they split up I kind of wish they had
just stayed married because they have
actual chemistry now like before they
didn't have much in common they just
never felt right they weren't mature
enough for each other but now they've
evolved both as people but also in their
relationship with each other like she's
very much come out of her shell and
found her her true personality and he
he's not like walking on eggshells
around her like not trying to lose her
because he's loved her for so long and
it was unrequited now it just feels like
two equals who know who they are they
have chemistry they have history it
actually works now Ross man he feels
snubbed from not getting season 5 MVP
because he's coming out season six with
Avengers he is so good in these early
episodes he is in Tip-Top form he uh he
tries to convince Rachel like hey why
don't we stay married why because I
don't want to be a guy who's been
divorced three times I wanted to talk to
you about that whole annulment thing huh
yeah I'm not gonna do that I can't have
three failed marriages and eventually
Rachel's like hey this is crazy no we're
getting divorced we're getting annulled
and then Ross is like okay bye I'll get
us an alt and then he tells Rachel like
hey don't worry everything's
straightened out we're not married
anymore and then he sits down with
Phoebe and he's like hey
fiebs
fevers for balls
look at this
Rachel and I we're still married okay
see you you want to hear something weird
always I didn't get the annulment what
we're still married don't tell Rachel
see you later
shrimp this room is so good it's so
funny he's listen psychotic just
unhinged keep this guy away from me with
a 30-foot pole absolutely oh it's so
funny baby wants to convince Ross that
uh it's okay to be divorced three times
women aren't gonna judge you harshly so
in order to prove that to him she brings
Ross over to a group of three women and
she's like hey my friend Ross has been
divorced three times would you not date
him because of that and they're all
silent and I'm thinking that oh this is
just a quick joke making fun of Ross
then they cut away and then when they
cut back those three women are sitting
on the couch having a conversation with
Phoebe and Ross there's a there's a very
obvious formula for how shows introduce
characters how they use extras this was
incredibly abnormal I thought these were
three extras but no they they start
talking and they start like giving their
opinions on Ross's relationship it's
actually like stuff that they're the
characters are interacting with it's not
all just for jokes okay so what do you
think ladies who wouldn't be interested
well the divorces don't bother me I'd
date him okay what about you wouldn't
you want a date I don't care about the
divorces either but I wouldn't date him
it's just that he's obviously still in
love with this Rachel girl but again it
goes back to the organicism it's like oh
they just met three people and they're
having a conversation with them in the
coffee house that's normal I actually
really like that the show Friends does
not do this no other shows do at first
at first they're just non-speaking roles
and then cut to another scene cut back
and then those non-speaking roles are
not speaking Rose it's such an under the
radar thing yeah and I don't think
anyone would ever focus on but it was
interesting to me at least this is
actually a a much bigger issue that I
have with shows in general is they feel
very insular like they exist in a bubble
you know and as much as I like bubbles
uh blowing them specifically also my
favorite Powerpuff girl but viewers can
can feel that it feels like a very
isolated worlds and the the characters
aren't existing in reality and it feels
very much like a television show scenes
like this were where characters are
interacting with kind of like quote
unquote normal people or people that
aren't going to be around often I don't
know it makes her feel more real I
enjoyed it I enjoyed it a good deal I
did right at this point that I was I
think I enjoyed it so much because I was
kind of formulaed out I'd seen what
friends does on an episode episode basis
and watching so many episodes in
succession I understood exactly how
every episode was gonna operate and I
think it takes certain moments to kind
of help refresh episode three picks
right back on up with the hijinks see uh
Ross realizing now he's still in love
with Rachel he's like you know what
Rachel Chandler's gonna move in with
Monica and they want you out how about
you just come live with me and she's
like oh hell yeah except oh Chandler
Monica they're having a fight and uh
they're not gonna move in together
anymore I was just at Monica's and she
and Chandler had a big fight and they're
not moving in well over a stupid room
but I'm also really psyched because now
I don't have to move in here but Ross he
takes this to heart he marches on over
to Chandler and Monica's and he's like
hey come on what is this about you two
not moving in together all right let's
solve this I can't just stand by and
watch two people I care about see Heart
by something that is so silly plays out
very well with kudos to the show because
that was great good a verbal contract is
binding in the state of New York episode
nine Ross and Monica
great energy together again I I wanted
more of uh Chandler and Rachel and I
wanted more of Ross and Monica because
their pairing is so funny is there's so
much untapped humor I felt like in that
relationship you are such a tattletale
also Joey pushing on his hernia so his
health insurance runs out with the
actors guilds and until he gets an
acting job he's not gonna have health
insurance so he's he's trying to go to
auditions while pushing on his hernia so
to relieve the pain and it is some dark
humor oh hey Timmy I've got a surprise
for you also Ross is teaching a class at
uh University he's now a teacher and she
tries to make a good impression on the
kids and he's nervous so all of a sudden
an accent comes tumbling out of his
mouth and he's like oh great now they're
gonna think I have an accent but I don't
it just kind of came out of me come
again what's what's this nonsense
so his whole plot that episode is about
him having the accent and then trying to
like phase it out and then he finally
has to just come clean I was just trying
to make a good first impression what you
guys think of me is really important so
if you just give me another chance to
make a good impression and then in comes
Rachel roaring Russ are you crazy I'm
still your wife because she just found
out that her and Ross are still married
so she just in front of the class that
just found out something really
embarrassing about Ross and he's like
hey can I can I just get a pass I'm all
looking for this one time and then
Rachel comes in immediately after oh
that's so funny Rachel
episode eight is the the teeth whitening
plot in preparation for a date Ross gets
his teeth whitened because he wanted to
uh want it to look good and uh it turns
out it's two whites what do you think I
think I shouldn't look directly at them
come on are they really that bad no no
you'll be fine Hillary's blind right she
will be after tonight okay Rich uh do
you notice anything yeah your teeth yes
I saw them from outside so he has to
hide his teeth from her using various
props and hand motions it is so good and
eventually she turns off the lights and
is his teeth are like luminescent hey
guys do you remember uh do you remember
Emily remember her have you thought she
was bad wait till you meet Janine I
think she's my least favorite character
out of every character ever because not
only is she not interesting in the
slightest but she also hates the rest of
the friend group besides Joey and she
hates Chandler and Monica specifically
and there's a an episode about how
Chandler and Monica are excited to
finally have another couple to uh to go
out with I'm so glad that you guys got
together Taylor and I are always looking
for a couple to go out with and then
Janine is like no I hate them they're so
annoying I can't handle two nights in a
row with him he's black she's very loud
for such a small person and apparently
listen I don't down in my notes when I
was first watching the show that she
insulted Ross now I couldn't find it
when I was looking through I went to try
to find her in something Ross I couldn't
find it but if she did then that [ __ ]
deserves hell I don't know what to tell
you some sins are unforgivable let's
focus on something more positive how
about a quality line delivery from our
three-time MVP Ross Ross where did you I
got it at Pottery Barn okay good stuff
Ross Rachel and Phoebe also a great
underrated Trio they don't get too many
plots where it's those three but they
are wonderful together unagi that is so
funny we'll talk about that a little bit
later because we're on episode 11 now
and we're talking about Phoebe's hate of
pottery box see Rachel the febrile
living together right now and uh Rachel
likes Pottery Barn and Phoebe hates
Pottery Barn so when Rachel buys some
new furniture PBS where Rachel got it
from and she has to lie where did you
get it yes a flea market oh I knew you
would get it on the first kiss just like
creates a bunch of chaos and it's super
funny and then Ross is roped into it and
it's just yeah great episode episode 11.
but you want to know who wants who won't
be winning MVP for season six
Joseph Joey why the uh New Year's party
he has a golden opportunity for some
just like an easy easy humor physical
humor because he starts getting danced
on by a girl and he does nothing with
that joke he like backs up and like
looks around worriedly a little bit but
he could have played into that so hard
so easily you know what's so funny too
although I must say this is one Rachel
when uh when Rachel's sister comes and
Rachel has to back down Joey
aggressively
funny good stuff even right before that
where the sister knocks on the door but
all six friends are in the room together
and they're just like wait we're all
here and then Phoebe starts like
counting who's all like all the six of
them are here yeah who else gonna be
I actually like those jokes they're
they're very uh again it's kind of like
at the start of season three where it
brushed against the fourth wall they're
almost making fun of the fact like
who else is important in this world it's
like who else would ever come to our
apartment episode 17. I did I did talk a
little bit of smack about Chandler and
Monica's plots they still have some good
stuff here and then season six uh
episode 17 where they have to make each
other their
anniversary gifts I think it is so both
of them forgets right they can't just go
out and buy something they have to make
something can I ask you a question about
the Valentine's Day gifts yeah do we
have to make the entire thing yes why
did you did you forget to make yours
Chandler though he manages to find a
mixtape a mixtape a mixtape in his
closet he doesn't know what the
mixtape's from and he gives it to her
and she thinks oh how thoughtful what a
great gift and she feels so bad because
uh Chandler sees through the fact that
she didn't plan anything out it's
actually a callback from an earlier
scene too it kind of comes full circle
it's really nice but she feels so bad
that she makes it up to her she like
cooks for him she does like other
romantic favors you know I'm talking
about for him and then finally when they
play the the mixtape her favorite song
in there uh the way you look tonight I
think it is that's playing they're slow
dancing and then all of a sudden
Janice's voice comes on the taste I love
the the way you look every night
Chandler that's so funny I can't believe
I didn't talk about unagi I scripted a
whole thing talking about unagi I I must
have been drinking and then I just like
skipped over that part it's one of my
favorite plots in all of French and I
just didn't talk about it so unagi is a
concept that Ross tries to teach Phoebe
and Rachel always be aware of the
dangers around you and Rachel and Phoebe
they don't take Ross that serious so
he's going to prove the concept of unagi
by scaring them so he hides behind the
corner jumps out at them scares them and
then they learn unagi but they want to
get their Revenge because they were
scared by Ross so they sneak into his
apartment and then jump out at him
scaring him
not very unagi of you Ross So Ross wants
to get his revenge on their Revenge so
he sneaks into their Apartments but the
problem is he tries to hide behind a
chair I didn't talk about this much but
Ross is a beefcake
and it's hard to hide a big masculine
beefy cakey frame behind a chair so they
spot him and then they smash cut to them
pinning Ross on the floor which goes
back to to some of the points I was
talking about with physical comedy I
think there's there's humor in watching
them actually subdue Ross but for some
reason they're just like no we don't
have the budget to actually like do us
like just like two moves of choreography
ah but nevertheless Ross he still needs
his revenge so this is one of my
favorite bits in all of friends he goes
to a self-defense instructor this is a
man who teaches self-defense to women to
ward off male attackers and then Ross
comes into his Studio One day after a
class and he's like hey can you teach me
the best way to attack women like could
you give me some tips because I there's
these two women that I really want to
attack one of my favorite changes in the
entire show unagi also season 6 has one
of my favorite B plots ever and that is
Joey's fridge break and when Joey throws
Ross into the fridge at first I thought
that's physical humor finally we're
getting some of that
what the hell are you doing what the
hell am I doing you just broke my fridge
that was one of the highlights of the
entire show I went back and I think I
rebound that scene probably like five
times it was so good how do you know
it's even broken you think I don't know
what breaks my fridge
episode 20 though huh a half recap
episode
super fun
what are you doing I hate recap episodes
I I just like burning desire hate it's
like if I wanted to go watch that that
episode I would just go watch that
episode I don't need to see the
flashback to it like I know what
happened I watched it like two days ago
all right it's time to do it it's time
to do it my favorite moment in all of
friends across the entirety of the show
here is my number one favorite moment
it's the Bruce Willis episodes I'm gonna
talk a little bit more about this after
my two favorite episodes
I don't know if that's official but I
right now I'd say probably my two
favorite episodes in the entire series
see Ross he's dating uh this girl girl
we'll call it a girl I didn't answer her
name see she's one of his students it's
College age so it's fine it's not
illegal it's just a taboo you know you
shouldn't be doing it but you see girl
here she has a father
like most girls do and this father is
Bruce Willis and he does not like Ross I
don't know why Ross is a three-time MVP
winner I don't know what possible
justification Bruce Willis has while he
does not like Ross he does like Rachel
so Rachel decides I have a plan I'm
gonna talk so highly of you Ross to this
guy that he's gonna finally think highly
of you and then they go on a little
deviled eight little father daughter
double date and things are going well
for the most part except when here we go
on Rachel steps away to go to the
bathroom Bruce Willis like Hey listen I
know I've been giving you a hard time
it's because I don't like you but I
don't think you're a terrible person
right so a little bit of an olive branch
you're not
all bad I'm sorry I was so harsh before
this whole scene by the way my number
one favorite moment it's this whole
scene as soon as Rachel steps away Ross
sticks his foot in his mouth because
because he starts talking about versus
wife who is dead Carol and I are in
excellent terms as I'm sure you are with
your life I'm sorry it's unbelievable
and then Rachel comes back to the table
and she overhears them talking about
Ross having a failed marriage and she
just assumes that they're talking about
her and his failed marriage I just
didn't realize you were married we were
but that was just a I mean that was just
a big drunken mistake but they were
talking about uh his first wife you two
were married oh whoops I'm sorry you
were talking about Emily because they
were talking about the first wife and
then Rachel thought they were talking
about her the third wife but then she
brings out the second wife which Bruce
Willis didn't know about any of this
that's my favorite scene in all of
friends and it doesn't stop there
because the next episode is the cabin
episode so Hey listen I love getting a
new set Ross and uh and girl decided to
go on a uh cabin vacation a little
getaway but uh you know Bruce Willis at
the beginning of the episode he's like
hey I don't want you to date my daughter
anymore and if you do I'm Gonna Get You
fire oh a man with a plan so stop dating
her or lose your job but Ross the
Beefcake the uh the rebel spirit that he
is decides to do the manly thing and
that is sneak around behind the father's
back except oh what happened Bruce
Willis happens to show up with Rachel
and a little special vacation Getaway on
the same day as Ross and girl hey
everybody see this this is just some
small physical comedy this is this kind
of stuff that is so rare in friends but
it brings so much humor and even in the
rest of the episode uh Bruce is great
Rachel's great Ross of course is great
girl is
present and the bee plots where Monica
is at like a a venue of some sort and
they have like a two-year wait list to
hold wedding ceremonies and she's like
you know what let me just throw our
names down in fact it was the other
girls that convinced her to do so Monica
you should totally put your name down
for this month and the Chandler who's
home alone he's sitting there he's
screening for calls the venue calls and
they're like hey we got a cancellation
do you want to uh do you want to take
the dates and of course he freaks out
because he's a commitment foe but he is
available
yes the groom no not the groom turns out
he's not actually freaked out he
actually wants to marry her we'll talk
about that in a sec to rap season six
let me play a joey clip in a little
funny moment here no I don't know
Chandler like something's changed maybe
you changed I didn't change maybe that's
the problem one of the most underrated
Joey scenes I would argue because he's
just talking and just kind of throwing
stuff at the wall and hoping something's
good I relate to that quite a lot good
job Joey for context uh Chandler intends
to propose to Monica but he wants it to
be a surprise so he starts laying the
foundation by telling Monica I never
want to get married I think the whole
concept of marriage is unnatural and
then mustache all of a sudden he
re-enters the picture and he's like hey
Monica uh
I don't know just throwing it out there
you want to get married remember those
those kids I didn't want uh you know
what I'll have some kids let's have some
kids let's have a couple kids let's have
a broom I want to spend my life with you
I want to marry you I want to have kids
with you and now Monica's all confused
because Chandler's like I don't want to
get married and now Richard's coming
back in the picture and the reason they
didn't work out is because he didn't
want these things but now he does if it
means he can have her as well I didn't
cover the end of the season for some
reason I you know what I think it was I
knew because I'd seen late season
episodes I knew Chandler and Monica were
married so I don't think it registered
as much as it maybe should have but I
think it's probably like a fan favorite
moment it's very nice it's very sweet
because Chandler thinks he's he's made
Monica run away she's gone she had a bag
and she left what are you talking about
she was all crying she said you guys
want different things I can't believe I
ruined this he thinks he's scared her
away into Richard's arms with his dumb
strategy of convincing her he doesn't
want to get married when he actually
does and then Joey comes in clutch too
because he helps Monica by convincing
Chandler that she left and then Chandler
opens the door and it's candle lit and
Monica proposes to him it's so nice MVP
of season six are you ready
oh we have a first time MVP winner the
MVP of season six is
the MVP is chasing six is
Ross congratulations first time MVP
winner like I said this is the the first
time he has won the MVP award for season
six he's won other MVP awards for other
Seasons but this will be the first time
he won the award for season six
so also little puppy paw so cute that's
what came in handy
[Music]
opening episode Joey's trying to
audition for a 19 year old parts so
let's see him trying to look like a 19
year old and use 19 year old vernacular
let's listen in so so they play a little
PlayStation huh that's whack
stop with the whack PlayStation song
Joe what's up with the whack PlayStation
song
so funny so funny every senior citizen
who is watching this episode is probably
laughing their buttocks off I'm happy
they like it because uh everybody else
hates it because this is
horrible throughout the entirety of the
first six seasons there have been bad
episodes bad plots but the show has
consistently rebounded within the
episode or within two episodes there was
always a banger right around the corner
this episode Here season seven episode
one is what we call a precursor this
episode is a Harbinger for what is to
come in season seven I'm about 25 sure I
use the word precursor and Harbinger
correctly oh hey look there's two MVPs
out in the hallway one of them ate
four-time MVP I'm sure that they're
gonna have a very interesting
conversation oh wait it's one of their
worst conversations ever yeah I don't
really like your hands my hands yeah
well good news at least episode two is
great
oh wait no it sucks just as much okay
great start to a new season see Joey
finds a dirty book of Rachel's and uh he
decides to tease her about it and then
she she's had enough finally she's like
you know what Joey so what I have this
book yeah hey you know what I don't care
I'm not ashamed of my book so you know
what Joey if you're gonna tease me about
my dirty book how about you just take me
right now yes Joseph I want you here and
right now all right you know what that's
it you want to do it let's do it
huh and Joey who's literally Mr sex
and sandwiches I called Joey Mr
sandwiches uh there's not like many
jokes about sandwiches with Joey it's
just more food in general he's Mr food
but I call them Mr sandwiches because I
I remember that one plot where they hear
a car backfiring while they're on a a
ride along with Phoebe's cop boyfriend
and then Joey leaps over Ross because
you know those are gunshots so he leaps
and Ross is touched because he thinks
Joey is like trying to protect him
from a gunshot but in reality Joey was
actually reaching for a sandwich to save
his sandwich from a gunshot that is so
funny and Friends has so many of those
like memorable plots just so stupid but
so good anyways back to the point I was
making he's like oh no a woman wants to
smoosh with me and she's being forward
about it I don't know what to do I get
so nervous around the women I think the
worst part about this is even the show
itself feels like it knows it's awkward
and it's not a good [ __ ] it's like the
button it's the button to the episode so
she hits on Joey Joey like runs away but
right after he does he's like I'm scared
I want out of here there's like a an
extra second before the the closing
sound of the credits kicks in just
listen to this listen to this but I
would keep that helmet on because you're
in for a referee I don't want to I'm
scared
foreign
did that not feel awkward to you maybe
I'm just like hyper sensitive to these
sorts of things at least episode three
is alright
oh wait no this one sucks dude what is
going on with the show at this point
what is happening are they just tired of
making good Seasons they're just like
let's just do a bad one I mean let's
just see what happens because you know
when when Ross starts making bad jokes
that's when you know the show is not on
a good path case in points episode three
here which one was that the ones we had
right after you almost threw up oh yeah
batch 17 was good I did not like batch
16.
I'm okay
about 16 16 people get out of the way
what have you done to my MVP next
episode do you think you think that your
favorite animal says very much about you
what you mean behind my back
holy [ __ ] this is just getting worse and
worse they even try one of those hey
we're friends uh like that opening to
season three they brush against the
fourth wall they try one of those
moments in season seven here and even
that falls flat so some guy just tries
to come over and sit one of those the
open seats next to Chandler and Chandler
like shoes him away no no no no no yeah
but it's not funny it just kind of feels
being spirited and it's not like it
didn't feel like those earlier scenes
where it was brushing against the fourth
wall it just felt like very like
exclusive like you're not allowed here I
just got bad vibes from that maybe it's
because the rest of the season was
throwing me off but I hated this and
then Phoebe and and Monica come in and
they're they're like whispering and it's
just like awkward silence
this is one of the most awkward moments
in the entirety of the show I hated all
of this and the worst part was this
episode should be fun this episode is
all about like Monica finding out a
secret about Ross and and Chandler knew
it and swore to he'd hold it to his
grave but he had to tell Monica and now
Monica knows and now a bunch of secrets
are getting revealed you told her but
none of the secrets are really that fun
and it's just I don't know it goes
nowhere it's not that it's not
interesting and it should be because
it's the fun stuff the construction of
the plot was fun but the execution was
awful something's going on in season
seven here episode 5 does not improve
I'll tell you that much it's Rachel Joey
and Chandler in the apartments I think
with this with this scene here
specifically it just felt very
constructed Joey makes a joke Chandler
reacts audience laughter Rachel pushes
the scene forward Joey reacts wait for
laughter next line Jennifer next line
Joseph
I should know his real name I called her
by her real name and not him I don't
know what's his name Tribbiani no that's
his last name of a character LeBlanc
Matt LeBlanc okay took me a minute I
skipped through I'm gonna be honest HBO
Max they have a skip intro button hit
that every single time I'm not I'm not
gonna skip through the intro with any
show ask ing I skip every intro every
show ever but yeah this just felt so it
just felt so formulaic Rachel line wait
for audience laughing to subside Joey
Lion Wait for audience laughter to
subside Chandler line wait for audience
laugh and I won't lie like at this point
I took like a month-long break from
watching the show the season seven was
just like it made me sad because I like
a little bit of me felt like I was
wasting my time the episodes just feel
like they were doing nothing and the
jokes weren't fun to me at all even the
good plots there's a there's a plot
where Ross and Phoebe date a divorced
couple so Phoebe dates the the man who's
divorcing the wife and Ross States the
woman who's divorced and it's pretty
obvious where the humor is going to come
from Ross is gonna take on her arguments
and Phoebe's gonna take on his arguments
and they're gonna argue amongst
themselves kind of like by proxy of
their relationship you think he's
emotionally unavailable I think he can
be well maybe he wouldn't be if she
didn't bring the office home with her
every night I knew you were gonna throw
that in my face as the the episode was
beginning I saw the end of the plot
where the couple was going to get back
together leaving Phoebe and Ross high
and dry and the reason I knew that is
because so many of the relationships of
these characters the Romantic Partners
they are like here for one episode and
they're gone and the fact that Phoebe
and Ross are gonna pick up a
relationship ship in the same episode
unlikely so these probably were going to
be one and done site just like the
formula of that I could see through it
already and I saw the end of the episode
and I was exactly right they get back
together leave Ross and Phoebe High and
Dry it's not that good we're so sorry we
don't need you all right in fact hey I'm
over it already you know what I don't
even give a tiny rat's ass and even in
uh in episode six which has a good plot
I will I will talk about that in a
second but episode 6 starts with the
guys watching die hard and talking about
how good Die Hard is of a movie and how
they love the main character who is the
main character of Die Hard played by
Bruce Willis who was
just on the show a couple episodes ago
it feels weird to talk about a movie
that one of the actors who was in your
show and he's also in the movie you're
talking about and I will give the show a
little bit more of a pass if they didn't
have the Jean-Claude Van Damme from
season was that season two like
Jean-Claude Van Damme is an action movie
star who plays Jean-Claude Van Damme he
plays himself the action movie star in
the episode oh my God oh my God
Jean-Claude Van Damme did you see time
cop and then you got Joey who's going to
set so like we're being immersed in like
the movie world but then you're talking
about a movie with an act I don't know
that that bothers me more than it
probably should it's like oh Bruce
Willis in this movie's so good and then
Bruce Willis is in your show and you're
just like oh hello Brian as I that's not
Brian that's [ __ ] Bruce Willis what
are you talking about but regardless
that plot of uh them watching Die Hard
movies ends with Ross and Joey napping
together which is a phenomenal plot they
wake up and they fight they both found
the now wonderful at first they deny it
and I'll talk to you later okay but not
about this don't never but then they
want to nap together again and then the
episode ends with them napping together
and they wake up and the friend group is
there great nap it really was
and then this right here at the end I'm
just gonna play it it's so funny
that little excuse me that sent me so
far into the laughterville
laughter film I didn't want to say sent
me because it's just it's just too like
gen Z lingo I couldn't I had to finish
the sentence and convert what I was
saying into like an actual adult
sentence so I finished with
laughterville so maybe I didn't succeed
but episode seven I talk a lot of smack
about season seven but episode seven has
my favorite Joey plot in the entire
across everything all right
I'm gonna set my cup down because I'm
gonna get serious because I want to talk
about Joey for a moment so Joey sleeps
with a girl and he ditches her off to
Rachel he's like hey Rachel just you
know let her know I'm not looking for
anything serious okay see you later I
gotta go I'm late for work what what
you're gonna leave this person with me
and then Joey comes back and the girl's
still there he's still here yeah we
ended up spending the day together and
had such a great time bye
so system kind of broke down huh right
down in the system oh just it's my
favorite Joy plot I love this episode so
much Phoebe and Rachel love the girl
that Joey brought over though right and
Joey just meant this to be like a
one-night stand type of thing but they
try to convince him like Hey this girl
is special give her another chance and
he's like no thank you I don't I'm not
interested we want you to marry her what
she so
beers at lunch my beers but then the
girls they can [ __ ] the little plans so
Joey comes to the coffee house and he's
gonna go see a movie with Rachel that
was the plan but then Phoebe brings the
girl the one I send into the coffee
house and then Phoebe and Rachel are
like oh
no we forgot that party we have to go to
oh no and Joey as much of an idiot as he
is he catches on he understands that
they're trying to set him up with this
girl they're like why don't you go on a
date why don't you go onto the movies
together and then the way Joey says this
wait a minute
do something yeah look how that worked
out
that is my favorite Joey line delivery
in the entire show and then turn of
events of course of course in order to
get the best humor out of it things have
got to evolve and change Joey ends up
really liking her but she doesn't really
like Joey and then they gotta tell Joey
like hey she doesn't really like you
which hurts Joey deeply and I love hurt
Joey she's not looking for a serious
relationship where are you getting this
well she told me oh
because it gives Matt LeBlanc a chance
to Showcase his the character a little
bit more this isn't the first character
that I've watched devolve into complete
idiocy like I don't dislike that because
one of my favorite TV characters of all
time Eric Matthews from Boy Meets worlds
he starts out in the early Seasons as
like this this older brother with
untapped potential eventually he starts
landsliding into just like complete
buffoon like eating supervision almost
like he's just that stupid and there's
like a similarity between these two
characters in some ways for me because
both are mostly played for laughs and in
friends even Phoebe like eventually she
gets structured I'll talk about this
more in season nine but as soon as she
starts getting into a relationship with
Mike I think that's when I started
really understanding her character when
she starts talking about how she wants
uh like a lot of the normal things
because she didn't grow up with normal
things so she wants the uh the
engagement the wedding she wants like a
normal family in a normal house because
she never had those things and that
helped me uh understand her character it
was pretty late at that point but that's
when I started to come around on febrile
bit I feel like Joey almost gets those
moments and I kind of compare Joey to to
Eric from Boy Meets worlds because there
are moments where you know Eric's
bumbling around but even he he has a
moment where he wants to adapt a kid he
feels lost in life he builds this
connection this bond with this kid who's
uh an orphan and he wants to adopt the
kid and he decides you know what I'm
gonna do it I'm gonna adopt this kid and
we're gonna make it work and then he
finds out the kid got an adoption offer
from a very stable very loving family
and he has to basically decide like hey
I need to let this kid go on because
he's gonna have a better life with his
other family and it's this very
emotional scene where he has to tell the
kid I'm not going to adopt you even
though the kid wants to go with him
except you I'm not going to adopt you
Tommy why not because
I'm not I don't like you anymore I'm
sorry to hear that Tom and I'm going to
California to be with people who care
about me
even in the the last couple episodes of
the series uh when he's like ultimate
goofball he still has this like really
deep plot where he feels left out by
Corey the main character of the series
and he's very hurt by that and they have
like a very meaningful moment is this
all because I didn't let you clean out
this stupid garage you know something I
take it back it is about cleaning out
the stupid garage dad wanted us to do
that together and you chose to leave me
out those are our memories you have any
idea how it felt to go down there and
see Sean and Topanga there instead of me
I feel like Joey like in this episode he
he gets that a little bit where it's
like I'm I'm looking for a connection as
much as I talk about like being a loner
and enjoying that lifestyle and he
realizes he does want that connection
and the show never gives it to him or
never even like comes close to giving it
to him he never really has a serious
relationship We're not gonna talk about
the Rachel thing well we'll talk about
it later but that was never really
serious I don't know I I'm bothered I
feel like the show just never really
gives that to Joey and I I think that
just keeps his character so
two-dimensional when the rest of the
characters they also feel like they can
be a little bit too dimensional at times
they get some three-dimensionality to
them it kind of helps flush them out I
talked about Phoebe the show is
constantly watching these 20-somethings
grow up and and find their passions and
their relationships and Joey just never
really gets any of that he gets rehired
onto a TV show he got fired from and
that's like his Peak he's never really
grows up I feel the most let down by his
character across all the characters but
in season seven here he's carrying the
show they play the states game you you
have to name all the states in six
minutes and he says I got 56 states that
was funny say hello to the new champ of
Chandler's dumb States game ah how many
you got 56. that whole episode was funny
Ross is good there too and it's
Thanksgiving I believe that's
Thanksgiving episode and then Ross sets
the the reward punishment upon himself
where he's like I'm not eating until I
name all the states and he can't do it I
have 49 states
now there are no more so I I think I
should be able to eat something it's up
to you
oh and then also when it comes when it
comes out that Ross doesn't like ice
cream and this is his his line delivery
it's like Ross not like an ice cream you
don't like ice cream it's too cold
it's too good oh you guys remember
Janine
yeah this guy here is pretty much the
male version which is so uninteresting I
can't even be bothered to talk about him
because I think I would get bored
hearing myself even recite one sentence
about his character at all I could talk
about how boring he is because that's
interesting like you achieve something
how are you in such a hit show but
you're just so blah I don't know how you
did it it's impressive oh God this kid
there's this kid too this kid is an
amazing child actor he was in uh Big
Daddy I miss him I you know what I kind
of miss him I feel like there was an era
of of child actors that felt so pure and
innocent uh like the Macaulay culkins
and Frankie Muniz this kid huh I feel
like nowadays the child actors it's just
the there there's something missing like
you know like the sprouses they don't
bring the same kind of quality of acting
as like kids like this bring you know
what I mean like this kid just brings it
real talent here the scratches could
never another great Joey line delivery
right here so Ross is uh trying to bring
back in an old Nick name Joey hears that
Ross is trying to bring it back Hey Joe
while you're over there how about
another beer for the rosatron
Ross is that back
oh I'm gonna be honest Joey is as much
as I complain about his character Arc
that's more so like later on in the
season he talked about this in
interviews where they actually had to
have multiple massage therapists come in
every single week specifically to work
on Joey's back because his character was
carrying the entire show this season it
kind of makes me think with is is as
much as they're phoning it in with some
of this stuff I feel like they should
have just gave Joey his own show I have
no doubt that if they just gave him his
own show he would have been successful I
think they probably should have done
that to be honest but I guess I guess
we'll never know
episode 12 this is super funny Monica
and Chandler they're smooshing or
they're supposed to be smooshing but
Monica fell asleep
what
what are you doing do you know what just
happened we we had sex and then we fell
asleep no we were in the middle of sex
and you fell asleep you can tell they
were about to smoosh because Monica is
underneath the covers and Chandler is on
top of the covers and both of them are
fully closed and Chandler gets upset at
Monica for falling asleep when they were
clearly just about to smoosh I mean they
were right there we were in the middle
of sex how how difficult is it I think
recording friends must have been so easy
because everything is on the same three
sets where's the budget even going
because I know you got like crew that
you gotta pay and the actors eventually
they started making more and more money
understandably but commit to this if
Chandler and moniker were about to do it
in the middle of sex they should at
least look like they were about to do it
it's weird because it's like the same
thing in the later in the episode Joey
and Ross were locked up on the roof so
they gotta find a way down Ross is like
hey let's let's jump down but let's have
avoid that patch of ice and avoid that
blotch of black weird stuff and avoid
that dumpster with spikes in it now
we're gonna have to make sure to land to
the right of that patch of ice not hit
the dumpster on the other side and try
to avoid that that weird brownish red
stuff in the middle so why are you
talking about stuff that we can't see as
viewers just get the b-roll just go out
and record it so that we can see what
Ross is seeing so we can get the other
angle of that because it's weird when
Ross is like avoid that weird colored
watch there that would be bad to drop on
like that's not funny it'd be funny if
we could see it we're like oh yeah that
is weird you wouldn't want to land on
that but we never get that reverse shot
because then they'd have to go out and
actually shoot something and oh no going
out and creating that would have cost a
few extra hundred dollars and we can't
afford that I started to get the
impression and I actually wrote this
down in my notes that the show at this
point had gone as far as it should have
like the show is always about 20
somethings who are finding themselves
and they're growing in the relationships
they're growing in in their careers and
now it's just looking for reasons to
stay on like At first all the actors are
hungry to be on a successful show so
they're putting their best foot forward
they're finding their characters the
writers were figuring out the characters
and then moving their plots forward like
it was multiple Seasons where Rachel's
finding herself or she has to work like
a low end service job then she has to
work job she doesn't like as an
assistant and then finally she gets to a
job she likes and that's many seasons
and then there's Monica who was like
working in different restaurants and
finally she gets promoted and she gets a
job at a good restaurant so there's
Ross's divorces and relationships and
then Monica and Chandler are their
relationship and the show is about a
bunch of mid 20somethings finding
themselves and then we see them do this
and now it's like
the the concepts for the show we've kind
of done it and now it's just like why
are we why are we still going like we we
accomplish what we settle to do all the
actors at this point are probably
getting like big movie offers and
because they're like the hottest you
know the hottest actors on TV but as
soon as we start getting plots like oh
Rachel broke Joey's chair and then
Chandler thinks he broke the chair so he
replaces it with his chair and then Joey
gets jealous of Rachel's chair that she
bought to replace Joey's chair with but
since Joey's chair was replaced with
Chandler's chair then the chair is fixed
and so he keeps the chair and then
Rachel gets the new chair but Joey likes
the new chair better so he breaks the
Chandler's chair and now there's two
broken chairs and then Joey gets the new
chair and now we got two broken chairs
and that's the whole plot it's like
that's like that's the that's the that's
the that's why that's so dumb I can't
believe friends made me sit through that
episode what did you think the elves
came in and fixed it no angels I mean
it's fine it's fine as a plot but I just
feel like we're going nowhere Monica's
30th birthday party okay so this is a
super fun Monica moment Monica gets
drunk and Phoebe calls for a toast each
speech let's hear from the birthday girl
Monica drunk starts to give a speech
about how you know what she's just gonna
let loose she's gonna admit to her
parents that she she drinks alcohol a 30
year old drinking alcohol oh no and
guess what I've been drunk before
and then she admits she just smoked a
cigarette one time oh no not Monica and
I actually do feel bad for for Courtney
Cox there because uh the joke didn't
laugh like even the audience they didn't
laugh and the editors didn't like put
much laughter in in post either so we
could feel how awkward it was
before
and I've smoked a cigarette and then all
that's left is is for her just to like
oh the joke didn't land well then what
if I what if I fell over
okay I'm being a little bit mean the
show is just flubbing so hard the Joey
getting a new brain that plot that's
really good the rest of the friends that
episode not that good but the end is
really good well Ross is playing the
um
the sacks of saxophloot the Irish thing
the or the
ah he's played this instrument here the
saxophone what the hell is it called I
don't know it doesn't matter he's
playing this thing they do a pen across
the the four friends that are listening
their faces you can see Jennifer
Aniston's barely hanging on in character
and then Phoebe chimes in and she starts
like singing along
[Music]
that's funny and then you can see you
can see Jennifer Aniston she's about to
break that's actually really fun of
Phoebe's part and I don't mind this like
actors breaking I don't care like this
isn't Game of Thrones right like there
are suspension of disbelief is already
pretty minimal this is a comedy I know
I'm watching a show I don't really care
that much so I I enjoy that it's a
bagpipe I scripted it too it's a bagpipe
what do I call it
a saxophloot
episode 19's plot okay so this this plot
is where Phoebe gets into like a new hot
and heavy romance but see Monica she's
she's engaged to Chandler it's pretty
close to the wedding and she's starting
to realize I'm not ever gonna have
another relationship never gonna have
another first kiss and on the first date
not gonna have those early butterflies
just keep thinking about all these
things that I'm not gonna have and it's
freaking me out I actually really like
the setup for this episode because
Monica was juxtaposing her relationship
against Phoebe's new romance and I I was
excited about the the early parts of
this episode I thought we're gonna get
this really nice cathartic Full Circle
episode where Phoebe who at first was
just completely Smitten by a guy started
finding out more about him and she kind
of soured them and then all those
butterflies went away and now she's back
to square one where she where she was at
the beginning like all her other
relationships like most of the friends
groups relationships and I thought
Monica was gonna see that and then she
was gonna be reminded like oh I am
giving up those early relationship
butterflies but I remember turn I'm
gaining like stability I'm getting
something comfortable and definite you
know I thought she was gonna be able to
see that full circle but instead Phoebe
is just dating this guy it's going super
well and she's like I'm never gonna have
that and she goes to Chandler and being
like hey are you nervous and he's like
not really and she's like you know what
me neither and then that that's it they
just talk it out and resolve it
like you didn't even need the Phoebe
part because Phoebe I don't think that
ever came full circle I think that was
just like oh she's really happy in that
relationship in the next episode the
guy's just gone I don't know I just feel
like the writers are mailing it in
because that's such an obvious good plot
that they could have done but they
didn't do it they didn't finish it they
did half of it and then they were like
okay that's good enough I should give
credit to the show they do an episode
where Ross is attracted to his cousin
we've all been there right I think even
after seven years friends just continues
to be relatable you try to make a move
on your cousin they reject you we've all
been there
we've all been there right that's not
just that's everybody oh wait that's
actually kind of funny that's relatable
relate bubble Ross's relate did to his
cousin
high level commentary baby actually this
just occurred to me yesterday too you
can't spell gross without rosh
I'm a Ross Defender but I'm gonna let
you guys have that one listen I like
Ross I do doing some research for this
video I know that people aren't high on
Ross people don't like them I get it I
actually like that people don't like
them because then it makes it funnier
how much I like him but I would like to
say
I get it he's mopey with women he's
barely around with his kid and now he's
trying to bang his cousin I get it but
that said you cannot deny this is pretty
good
what the hell are you doing say
something clever
okay it doesn't have to be clever just
has to be words say some words
like the inner monologue he tries to
make a wheel on his cousin and it
backfires and then he has the inner
monologue and he tries to figure out
what to say to her to try to make the
situation any better and it just makes
it worse there is nothing you could say
to make this worse so just say something
I I haven't had sex in a very long time
that is so good
I'm done drinking I put my cup down I
can clap and do stuff with my hands Ross
oh Ross what are my hands doing I don't
know Winona Ryder is in episode 20 she's
amazing uh Jason Alexander is also I
believe in an episode this season he's
very good I would say one thing friends
does really well is working in guest
stars I don't think there's really many
misses when they bring on a guest star
Brad Pitt's the only one that comes to
mind I like Brad Pitt and I think he's a
good actor I don't think he was I don't
I don't know I just don't think he was
prepared for TV and sitcoms but I think
um most most of the actors most of the
guest stars that come in do a good job
writers of friends do a good job working
them in and making them feel comfortable
with their the role closing in on the
end of the season let's end it strong
who's in this car oh back up back up
back up back up is this supposed to be
Ross and is this supposed to be Rachel
show when I talk about the bare minimum
this is the kind of [ __ ] I'm talking
about are you kidding me you couldn't
get the swim and Jennifer Aniston you
couldn't get them in a car pull up on
the side of the road and get the shots
you had to get body doubles hey also
quick note to the director whoever
directed this one thing that you're
aiming for with uh with lookalikes is
that they look alike to the actors
they're portraying like listen they
actually went out and got b-roll though
so I gotta give him credit they actually
they did they went and got b-roll they
just didn't do it with the actors that
they needed
let's just get the hell out of the
season the the Cliffhanger oh the
wedding uh of Chandler and Monica then
the Cliffhanger Rachel's pregnant there
was a pregnancy test in the garbage and
it's positive
MVP MVP of season seven quickly quickly
is it Ross is it Ross maybe it's Ross
no it's Joey it's j
might be a little bit backwards there
you know what I think this is a strong
message that the academy is sending by
putting the J backwards in Joey
intentionally I'm sure what they're
trying to say is that the whole season
felt pretty backwards with how poorly
the quality was of the season so this
was this is their strong statement
against the the backward season
well congratulations Joey Joey season
seven he carried he really carried this
season he was the only one that was
consistent throughout the entire year so
Props to Joe he earned it one day later
day three Let's uh let's go light on the
soda and heavy on the vodky and Stir It
Up There we go you know what's funny
I've shot three separate days and my
mind continues to go back to that joke
that's how I know it's a good one maybe
it's funny to me because I have the
perspective of just seeing the liquid
not move at all that's so funny to me
like Stir It Up and then nothing's
happening it's funny to me Hey listen
good news is season eight is upon us
right and rostifer he took his non-mpp
season to heart just like in season six
he doesn't win MVP so he comes back with
a vengeance trying to win it again
episode one are forced to be reckoned
with watch hi I'm amona from her
restaurant oh
hello uh Mona from her restaurant
pretty good stuff I know
the girls in the bathroom also in
episode one dealing with Rachel's
pregnancy she's uh taking a second
pregnancy test to confirm the first ones
accuracy I almost said eligibility but
that's I luckily my brain corrected
itself a little bit deeper into this cup
my brain wouldn't have been able to do
that so luckily we got it now it's a
very nice scene you don't get too many
of these heartwarming moments at least
not relative to other shows in my
opinion I I really enjoy them I love
watching the three girls I love watching
especially Rachel who's she's such a
good actress Jennifer Aniston playing
this role of life she's not ready for a
child but also it's kind of like
something that she wants so when Phoebe
tells her the second test came back
negative it's negative
um
ah
well there you go she's a little bit
upset and then Phoebe reveals to her hey
I lied I just wanted a test to see how
you really felt and then she says this
oh that's a risky Little Nick it's a
risky little game I love that line
episode 2 has an exceptionally dumb
blunt you want to know what it is so
Chandler loses the cameras the
disposable cameras for the wedding so he
goes back to the wedding venue to search
for them and he can't find them and then
the him and Ross decide what if we just
recreate the wedding we'll put our suits
on we'll tag a bunch of photos and then
Monica would never know it's not like
Chandler's wife is is neurotic and
detail-oriented she would never notice
the fact that nobody is in her wedding
photos except Chandler and Ross it's
probably the dumbest plan any of them
have had and sadly I think it comes from
Ross I think Ross is the one who
suggested well let's just gloss over
that fat like we don't need to to rail
on that accountability I don't know what
you mean because you know it's funny too
especially because Ross is the one
several seasons ago Chandler wanted to
do something nice for Monica so he deep
cleaned the apartment and he moved
around a bunch of furniture put a bunch
of stuff in in different spots and then
Ross comes in and he's like hey you know
Monica doesn't like her stuff moving
around she's a super neat freak super
clean and like super wants her stuff
where it's supposed to be I think if I
want something done right I have to do
it myself other people just wreck stuff
and the channel is like oh crap I forgot
about that so Chandler and Ross both
know she's detail-oriented and they
still try to plan out this this stupid
plot Ross and and Chandler are running
around taking photos at some random
person's wedding and then for the final
picture which is uh you know the kiss
Chandler kissing Monica oh Monica's not
there so instead Chandler decides let's
just go up to the bride on our wedding
day and then force a kiss on her oh God
I was I was I was like physically
repulsed by this I you know it's it's
fiction right so whatever it's not that
big of a deal it's a fictional character
It Was Written in a plot everyone
consented but just like Chandler forcing
himself onto this woman who just got
married and Chandler just got married
himself yesterday and someone takes a
photograph of it and then runs away oh
the ick Factor man and again I know it's
Fiction it's friction so I'm not like
I'm not I know Chandler's not winning
MVP this season because that was uh that
was a no no no I will give
I will get a chance lure some credit
though as my voice comes back down to a
normal octave thank you the end of the
episode him and Monica have very good
energy I've talked about it they're a
great couple not super interesting but a
great couple nonetheless so Monica
opened up all the uh she couldn't she no
self-control she opened up all of the uh
all the wedding gifts and they were
supposed to do that so yeah so
Chandler's like hey we were supposed to
do that together you opened all the
presents without me I thought we were
supposed to do that together and then
Monica's like you kiss another woman and
then they do this call it even okay all
right listen they're on the same page
they're over it I I don't know there's
just something about the chemistry
between them I love it and then Ross
sees his sweatshirts I've been looking
for this for like a month so this
sweatshirt was worn by the man that
impregnated Rachel and it was at the end
of episode two they do the reveal right
and I actually thought they executed
this really well so it was a total
mystery about who was the the baby's
father some shows I think would drag it
out but this show pretty much just gets
right to it it's two episodes of the
mystery and then at the end of the
second episode they reveal it it's wrong
and then they do the you know the whole
sitcom me finding out I will say though
that Monica and Phoebe they have a
pretty uh awkward reaction it wasn't
yeah it just felt very active here was
their reaction to finding out oh my God
I think it was the fact that they had to
say it in Tandem and they didn't they
just should have they should have shot
it again and got a different tape and
then Joey comes in and knocks it out of
the park with his reaction because he's
over the top
and again it's a sitcom it should be
over the top you just found out that not
only is your friend pregnant but your
other friend was the one who did it he
was the culprit
well that crime wasn't coming I should
be careful with my language here is it
hot in here or is it just
Ross huh hey sexy huh what I like about
Rachel and Ross's conversation with her
telling him and that they do like the
condoms are only 97 effective that's
it's a good funny bit okay Russ come on
let's just forget about the condoms oh
well I may as well have especially when
they rope in Joey later on for that joke
and yeah it just continues it's good but
what I like about this conversation
specifically is Rachel tells Ross you
can be as involved as you want
considering what we know about Ross's
relationship with his first child that
means Ross's involvement with uh his new
child will be once every four years or
so so that'll be nice real bonding time
one day a year every four years the
whole third episode like I said the the
the condom thing that that played out
really well the whole episode is really
good and I started to feel like we were
shedding some of the the terribleness of
season seven it got in my hair that's
why I had to get it cut some of the
awfulness of season seven just like it
was it I wouldn't come out it clumped up
and I just had hey you want to see
something so this is Monica right this
is Monica this is Monica oh hey this is
still Monica this is Monica that's not
Monica this is Monica again this is
Monica this is Monica man this show just
in their mistakes they just
these actors are making like a million
dollars an episode and you can't sit
there while Phoebe's saying her lines
you have to have a stand-in she come on
man I think this is episode six the plot
is so dumb we're back to season seven
again so Phoebe is attracted to one of
Monica's employees who's awful
Burns things last night he lit my pastry
chef on fire and Phoebe wants to date
him but Monica fired him already so
Phoebe's like no no you can't fire him I
want to date him can you just give him
another chance please so Monica's like
okay well then I'll just
I'll not I'll unfire him I'll re-hire
him I don't know how the paperwork on
that has got to be a nightmare so she
rehires him even though he's awful at
his job and then Phoebe goes on on two
dates with him and she's like I don't
want to date him anymore I'm gonna break
up with him and Monica's like no I need
to fire him he's so bad and people's
like no you can't fire him I need to
break up with him and if he gets two
pieces of bad information he's gonna
harm himself so now I'm not allowed to
fire him can't fire a man dump him in
the same day himself and I'm like a
Phoebe you don't need to break up with
him if you've been on two dates did you
stop calling that's how you break up oh
that's not episode six because episode
six is the the Halloween episode and
that pissed me off because this happens
right here right ready
[Laughter]
what did you notice there we just
watched Phoebe enter
in a Supergirl costume and the audience
starts laughing there's no joke there's
no like preamble to this joke this isn't
like a payoff of like Phoebe talking
about being super girl she just comes in
dressed up as Supergirl and the audience
is like ah that freebie what what where
is that why where where do the laughs
come from and I think what was worse is
the joke that preceded it was one of the
worst jokes it's not even like a joke it
was just like can I just have the candy
yeah sure it's just a kid being like I
want candy and then Rachel's like okay
here
and then that was the jaw and then well
oh oh it was like the worst joke I've
heard in all the friends and then it
follows up by Phoebe's walks in and then
the audience is like oh this is so funny
with her why she she walked in I thought
she was gonna skip him but she really
broke my expectations that's where the
human came no I
the point that I'm trying to make here
which I don't think I articulated super
well is I think I understand the critics
of the show I gotta understand why
people don't like parts of friends
because the the laugh track it's a
little corny especially especially if
you're using it in places where laughter
shouldn't be I think lap tracks can be
good because it gives audiences at home
it gives them cues on where to laugh I
guess and laughter is contagious so it
like psychologically it works but when
you put laughs where laughs shouldn't be
it just feels manipulative it feels like
you're trying to convince me that
something is funny but there was no joke
and no humor so now I feel manipulated
anyways I will say listen I understand
like part of this is my fault this show
was never meant to be binged like
binging didn't exist streaming didn't
exist you weren't supposed to watch all
of friends in four months you were
supposed to watch it across 10 years
it's supposed to be like once a week for
half of the Year 20 minutes a pop you
know what I like I like these they just
swirl cake thing thingy Bobbers I like I
don't know how I don't know the name
does this have a name I don't care I
love the
love it's so good if I have like
a sit down and have three boxes of these
in one sitting I will throw up that's
good that's good that's kind of friends
like to show friends it's kind of like
catching up with your friend once a week
you know it's just like a quick little
vision but the way I watched it it was
like my friend came to stay with me and
it was fun for like a week and then they
were like hey I'm gonna stay a few more
months and then I started resenting them
luckily the friend is still enjoyable to
be around most of the time like in
episode 8 here Ross is caught between
his current girlfriend and Rachel's
father who has just found out that Ross
impregnated his daughter and Rachel
again Rachel's super funny in this
episode she doesn't have the heart to
tell her dad uh I guess she's a little
bit afraid because her father is like a
very hard-nosed man and she can't admit
that uh she made a mistake so she pawns
it off on Raj this is unacceptable
Rachel is if it costs that punk Ross
won't marry you yes yes he says I'm
damaged goods he says I'm damaged goods
that's so funny and I'm glad Phoebe's
there too because her reactions to it
are just so funny
I'm sweating I should I be sweating why
am I sweating Ross has to bounce between
uh his girlfriend and then Rachel's dad
so he's caught between them Rachel's dad
thinks that Ross won't marry his
daughter like he refuses he's just an
[ __ ] so he has to be like no no I
love Rachel but then he remembers his
girlfriend's there and he's like wait I
love her like that we dated it just
didn't work out she's very high
maintenance but then he remembers the
dad's there he's like well not high
maintenance like you grow to love it
over time but I don't love it it's like
I just I'm over it wow it's still great
though I'm sure somebody was so he has
to like bounce between the two that
speaks it comes stuff and then Joey
calls which intertwines a b plot to the
episode where Monica accidentally hires
a a hooker for Chandler's post marriage
bachelor party Ross lets it go to
voicemail so they hear it on the speaker
there's a hooker over here and we
thought maybe you know something about
it it's funny it's funny oh Thanksgiving
episode season eight to Brad Pitt's here
huh very handsome man so good looking
he's awful in this episode Rachel Green
Queen Rachel does whatever she wants in
the little Rachel land well that's
painful to say because I like him as an
actor it's not like he's he's bad
because he's a bad actor he's bad
because I don't think he's ever done a
sitcom I don't know that he's ever done
TV there's like a certain Cadence in
Rhythm that uh you saw how awkward
season one was for the actors those are
people who are veterans who shot a bunch
of pilots and have been on shows before
and they still struggle to find their
Cadence early on in the shows run and
now you see Brad Pitt who's coming in
doing this for the first time he's not
he's very awkward and it's not very good
but uh you know what he he's at least
he's good looking boss is a good place
he and his girlfriend Mona I want to say
I remember her name you want to know why
I remembered her name do you want to
know why it's because Herbert and Ross
actually are a good couple so I know
Rachel and Ross Ross and Mona actually
are really good together in the same way
that Monica and mustache would have been
great together
um it's been three days I've been
shooting for three days my voice is like
all right when are we stopping in the
same way Monica and mustache are great
together so are Mona and Ross
in this episode they have the uh so
where is this relationship going that
that plot you know that's always fun to
explore I still think we should have
this conversation really I mean I
cannot hold off any longer I had wanted
to save this for never I was hoping I
would forget it but I can't it's etched
into my brain we have to talk about the
maid with Monica and Chandler so Monica
the neat freak who wants everything her
way who loves to clean and caretake
Chandler decides I'm gonna hire a maid
okay doesn't seem really realistic and
you've never talked about it or
mentioned the fact that you'd want this
before and it's never brought up after
this episode's over so it kind of feels
like a convenient use for a plot so but
okay but the plot of the episode is
Monica thinks that the maid steals her
pants Monica thinks that the maid steals
her pants but the pants have a stain on
the crotch so Monica tries to get a look
at the maid's crotch
fun and then when that fails she
convinces Chandler he has to try to make
a move on the maid to try to get her to
take her shirt off because Monica thinks
that the maid stole her bra so now
Chandler's propositioning her and like
trying to look at her breasts I just I I
I I I I
hate this plot I hate it I hate it so
much not only because it feels contrived
it's never brought up before it never
talked about again like how they need a
maid it's purely for television
convenience it's too obvious yeah I hate
it so much it makes no sense episode 12
is when Joey realizes that he has
feelings for Rochelle I know that this
is a universally hated plot I do know
that I know that even the actors don't
like it they protested well I would say
protested they're getting paid like a
million dollars each so they really
wanted to be like hey we're not doing
this then I think they wouldn't have
done it but you know what I don't hate I
don't hate it because at least
something's happening a lot of these
plots
feel like they're going nowhere I think
what's the pitch of the show is that
time in your life where like your
friends or your family in your mid-20s
and you're trying to find your way
through life I felt like the characters
stopped moving forward maybe that was
part of my problem with season seven
definitely in season eight like let's
let's go somewhere right and I don't
know if Joey and Rachel are gonna be
together forever well I know that
they're not it would be on a table at
least it's better than just some guy who
is like oh it's an assistant that he's
here for like three episodes and there's
no meaning to the relationship and then
they break up and it's like why why do I
invest in this there was no point I'm a
little bit weird though I I it's hard
for me to watch
shows that go nowhere I like seeing
meaningful plot progression and uh
friends at a certain point just kind of
stop moving forward at least with the
the Joey and Rachel thing there's
potential for that to be like the final
couple right right they could be
together in the end possibly if you're
watching the show you'd be like oh well
maybe this is a thing now and that'll be
that'll carry through to the end it is
awkward though with the the triangle
between Ross Joey and Rachel because
Ross doesn't take it well Rachel
and it's like Ross has had so many
opportunities to get back together with
Rachel and Rachel has had so many
opportunities to get back together with
Ross so when Joey comes to Ross first
and being like hey I'm in love with
Rachel I don't want to pursue anything
because I know you and her have a
history and Ross is like okay good Ross
if there's any Embers to your feelings
for Rachel pursue her now that's you're
having a kid together like if there's
any time now would be the time so either
figure out your feelings for Rachel and
get back together with her or step aside
so Joey can pursue something serious
with her because you know Joey he's he's
like hey I L bomber he's serious and
Joey's a loyal guy he wouldn't be
pursuing Rachel if it wasn't genuine I'm
not sure about that
oh
I got goosebumps I'm so sick of Ross and
Rachel it's every freaking season every
single season Ross or Rachel is like I
think I maybe have feelings but I don't
think I'll explore it
I did figure out though here in season
eight as I was watching why friends is
so addicting one day I was just
completely exhausted like my brain was
fried I I wanted nothingness but in the
form of something this and I thought oh
Prince I'll just turn my friends it
actually worked out really well because
I got to turn my brain off I didn't have
to think at all and I got a handful of
laughs it was actually kind of like the
perfect show for it so like as much as I
have criticisms for the show that's just
how I would make it more for my liking
but the show is like one of the most
successful shows of all time so I'm not
saying they should have changed it I
just think that this show could have
been better but even as the show is it's
an international success one of the most
popular television shows of all time I
will have criticisms but like the points
are are moved you know
oh that was a big goal
they got music playing down in the
apartment down below it's a Saturday
night and I am here drinking alone so I
could do a camera how you guys doing hey
who needs friends what do you got Vodka
frankly this is how uh drinking problems
begin
but we stir we stir also on my point
about being exhausted turning my brain
off it also works out because it doesn't
matter what episode of Friends you turn
on you can boil down the characters to
like two or three identifying
characteristics that just to find them
or two even like two or three jokes that
they always go back to Monica used to be
fat Chandler maybe is gay Joey's pretty
dumb Phoebe's gonna say something out of
pocket bounce around to any season any
episode they have real house jokes and
again these these things can get a
little bit repetitive as you're watching
it during a binge but when it's just on
once in a while it's pretty comforting
episode 17 has a really good plot I I
enjoyed this one a lot so Rachel
rejected Joey's feelings Joey's like hey
I am I album you and she's like yup
yikes ooh gross and it's awkward
afterwards and Joey's been avoiding
Rachel because uh well she insulted him
by being like gross that's not true
nobody is avoiding her and Monica
suggests Rachel why don't you create a
problem a fictional problem and then
will help break the ice between you and
Joey as you work to solve your fictional
problem right that's a pretty good plot
by Monica next time you see him try to
get him talking about something else
maybe you have a work problem that you
need his advice on or ooh I could do
that and then the plot of course over
the course of the episode gets more and
more out of hand so Rachel comes up she
can't think of anything on the spot she
says something a little bit wild but
it's probably fine my boss wants to buy
my baby
foreign
takes it another step further you think
you can just buy my friend's baby
then things just continue to escalate
it's it's just like perfect sitcom stuff
if I
anyway implied that I wanted to buy your
baby
I am sorry the Monica and Chandler have
have a great little great little pitter
patter little pit pat see Monica she she
opens the CD cases and she's like oh why
why is one of the CDs not in the right
case and Chandler's like oh that a CD
you're looking for is actually in
another case and Monica's like why is
that CD in that case when that's not the
city that belongs in that case and then
Chandler's like because the case for the
CD number two is actually in a different
case and I there's just no other cases
so I just put it in the available case
and it's super funny
I feel like I can go to YouTube and I'm
sure I can find like fan cam of Chandler
or Monica and it's gonna be the sweetest
thing right because they're a great
couple but holy [ __ ] they're so boring
what they're so boring and then they
don't even get into like so what they
got together season at the end of season
four season five is them dating figuring
things out season six is like the
marriage season season seven what are
they doing season eight what are they
doing I don't think they do the kids
stuff to like season 10 and they're like
buying a house season 10 and they have
like three seasons where they don't do
anything together this guy lost his dad
Ross dad Ross's Dad this is Ross's dad
Ross's dad Ross is dead not Ross's dad
Ross's dad and Ross's dad and Ross's dad
here's something fun episode 19 a recap
episode
hey something actually fun apparently
Ross made a good joke in episode 21 at
11 minutes and 10 seconds in my notes I
have it written down so hey should we
see also the setup is what did I write
down here Ross meets a girl at a baby
store
a baby store what is a baby store I
guess there's a place where you buy
uh babies he flirts with the cashier huh
she calls him Indiana Jones because he's
in the paleontology which doesn't get
talked about often paleontologist who
works out you're like Indiana Jones and
she stops by his house later to deliver
one of his toys and then this happens
I'm just gonna grab my coat and uh and
my whip because of Indiana Jones
not not because I'm I'm into SNM you
know just just normal sex let's talk
about the MVP for season eight it's time
[Applause]
this makes sense a lot of the plots of
season eight revolved around Rachel's
pregnancy that felt like the the main
Beacon of the whole eighth season so it
only makes sense to give it to Ross he
is the one that got her pregnant and
made this all possible good job Ross
with yours insemination but also like
don't tell me he doesn't deserve it this
girl here isn't a paleontology which is
Ross is like primary interest none of
his friends ever want to talk to him
about it anytime he talks about
paleontology with his friends they all
roll their eyes and they give them Jabs
about how he's so boring and then this
woman to hear makes the Bold first move
to show up at his door she's into the
same thing she's into she is gorgeous
and Ross decides to not date her because
Rachel is slightly uncomfortable with
the idea of Ross dating while she's
pregnant if that is an MVB caliber
gentlemanliness gentlemanality
gentlemanly uh gentlemen ability
if that isn't a general if he isn't a
if he isn't a gentleman then I don't
know what I lost the track of what I was
trying to say now
the Cliffhanger of season eight was
Rachel is at the hospital she just gave
birth and guess what
Joey happened to find a ring in the
co-pockets and when he discovers it he
happens to be on a knee and he spins and
turns and Rachel sees Joey at one knee
with the ring doesn't say a word but
Rachel still thinks he's proposing and
she's like yeah I'll marry you
which is kind of weird because Joey
offered to marry Rachel before we knew
who the father was at the beginning of
season eight and Rachel was like I wrote
down a Chandler was one of his best
jokes ever pretty exciting episode one
here at five minutes let's see I want a
baby
honey we've been over this I need to be
facing the other way
you know it's weird how sometimes you
laugh really hard at a joke the first
time and then you hear it again and it's
uh
not as good of course the the reverse
could also be true something that's not
funny today could be hilarious tomorrow
if you don't find some of my jokes funny
I think it's just probably just a matter
of time maybe come back tomorrow I'll be
funny if that doesn't work then the next
day something weird happens between
episode one and two here's my punch
episode one I think was filmed at the
end of season eight and when it came
back at the start of season nine and
shot episode two as their first episode
look at the color grading this is the
end of episode one and the start of
episode two this is a continuation like
the scene is literally picking up
exactly where I left off Rachel and Ross
on the bed having the conversation Ross
just found out that Rachel said yes to
Joey's marriage proposal that he didn't
actually propose what we've been over
that the color grading is is so off and
then get this look at the door hey look
at this door this is the this is episode
one there's a look at there's a hallway
there's a hole down there but now here
in episode two
did they just put a wall it's the same
exact room we picked up exactly where we
left off I just I don't get how you mess
that up how are you the biggest show on
television and you're shooting
in a studio like this all this stuff is
so easy
I think Phoebe is trying to work her way
out of the friend group I think at some
point Phoebe's just like hey I I'm I'm I
don't know that I like this group all
that much there's something about it
where I feel like she likes some people
in the group and then she's just like
tolerates a few others she's just mean
to rocks at the start of episode five
it's Phoebe's birthday and Rachel Ross
they just had the baby and one of them
has to babysit and as soon as that's
brought up Phoebe's like oh Rachel
you're you come you're coming Ross you
stay babysit we don't need you there one
of us has to stay home and watch Emma
which one of us should go to dinner oh
Rachel
and then Ross is like well thanks Phoebe
but I think we can get a babysitter I
think it's time for us to uh to rely on
someone else and then baby's like oh
okay yeah okay you can come too I guess
then whatever I don't care Oh yay
ah just being vibe from Phoebe I think
she's just done with the friend group
later on in the season she also like
insults Chandler I think it's just Ross
and Chandler she doesn't like I think
she likes all the rest of them I think
if the whole friend group split up and
stop talking to each other all of them I
think Phoebe would be like all right I
don't think she'd lose sleep well for it
that's just kind of the feeling I get
here in uh season nine I'm not good
not the kind of girl that just ditches
her friends to be with her boyfriend
you know what I am and sadly we've come
to another moment I have been dreading
it is season 9 episode 9. we have Ross
who I've made my feelings for very clear
and then also Paul Rudd
[Music]
Le Paul Rudd
I said his name out loud and I was like
I don't know that that's right Paul his
name is Paul
his name is not Paul why is my brain
just like no that you just shut up do
this all rud his name's Paul I don't I
can't imagine like someone being like
hey Paul I feel like anyone addressing
him would be like hey Paul Rudd like
Rudd is part of his first name let's
just call him the redster because this
is throwing me off I actually like Paul
Rudd a lot and not because he was
Ant-Man in fact I haven't seen that
series I admire Paul Rudd for a little
film called two days which is impossible
to find I watched it a long time ago
somehow I don't know where I watched it
and then years went by and my brain was
like oh I should watch that again I
tried to find it online nowhere to be
found it's a it's a pretty depressing
film it's a film about uh Paul Rudd who
is a failed actor who is going to end
his pain and suffering and living in two
days so he has a student film crew who
are gonna shoot his final two days as he
goes around talking to everybody it is
sad it's sad it's emotional Paul Rudd is
fantastic in it and he uh he has some
emotional scenes that was the first time
I watched him and I was like oh my God
he's an amazing actor but you put Paul
Rudd who's just funny and also a quality
actor and Ross who's funny and a quality
actor in the same room together and the
joke is it's awkward silence between
them oh what a what a disappointments
What a Sad horrible disappointment that
you put two comedic talents in a room
together and the joke is they don't talk
or make jokes I mean they make a couple
jokes but it's not like back and forth
it's just like it's just one joke it's
like it's awkward silent between us you
like the beer it's actually a lager
huh
oh it just feels like such a missed
opportunity because I like both the
actors so much I would actually probably
prefer to talk about this though over
the next thing which is uh Chandler in
in Tulsa Oklahoma
you guys remember this plot have you
seen friends do you remember this the
Chandler falls asleep in a meeting and
uh he wakes up and he's like oh what's
going on and they're like oh you agree
and he's like yes then uh his boss is
like okay great you're moving to uh
Oklahoma yeah
yes problem solved Chandler will be
running our office in Tulsa and then he
goes to his boss and tries to be like
hey I can't go to Oklahoma and she's
like why can't you go and he's like oh I
can't admit I fell asleep in my in the
meeting so I guess I just got a good old
Oklahoma and he decides like four days
out of the week he's gonna fly to
Oklahoma and then to New York that's not
that's not like a quick flight it's
probably like a what two and a half
three hour flight at least back and
forth multiple times a week oh y'all
because you can't go to your boss and be
like hey sorry I can't do it and what's
the worst that can happen if you don't
do it you're fired okay well guess what
because channel is in Oklahoma and he's
like you know I don't want to be here I
want to be with my wife so he quits
anyways turns out they can't fire me
because I quit so if you're if you're at
your point where you're like willing to
quit your job anyways then why not risk
it I'm being like hey I don't want to go
to Oklahoma in the first place I'm so
bothered by this pot line and this plot
line also include includes the shark
attack I don't I don't want to talk
about it I don't want to talk about it
because it's so freaking dumb so we're
not I'm not gonna I'm not going to um
you can't make me Chandler watches shark
porn there is like a a small Arc of
Chandler finding what he wants to do
it's been a weird thing we're Chandler
like Joey has uh his career stuff Ross a
little bit has some career stuff Rachel
has a bunch of career stuff Phoebe
doesn't Monica does Chandler and Phoebe
have always been the odd people out when
it comes to the job because Chandler in
season one they touched on a little bit
where Chandler has an unsatisfying job
but then they never touch it ever again
he just has a stable job forever and
here at season nine I'm like oh finally
some some four character progression
with Chandler he he wants to find his
dream job like all the other friends
have besides baby this is actually
something I've alluded to it already boy
meets worlds this is something Boy Meets
World did well the father of the family
he has struggled for multiple episodes
across multiple Seasons with him being a
grocer he's a manager at a grocery store
he's just a bad boy who didn't have
sense enough to leave and now that's
what I am for the rest of my life I
think I could do pretty well settle in a
place like this that's it Eric that's
all you'd be doing just settling one day
you'll realize that all you've done is
settle and
you will not like yourself for that and
he feels like that isn't fulfilling to
him and finally one day he just on a
whim he quits because he wants to pursue
something that he's passionate about he
just doesn't know what that is So
eventually he ends up buying a an
Outdoors store they sell outdoor
equipment I love that so much because
not only was it built for multiple
seasons over the over the course of time
so we got to understand that about his
character and finally it hit a breaking
point but it also gave the show a new
set to play in it refreshed the show in
a way so for Chandler to quits I was
excited I was like okay let's finally
explore his passions and he's like I
kind of like marketing I guess I mean I
could write slogans I mean how hard
could it be cheese it's milk
that you chew so he does like this
marketing internship for like an episode
or two and he's good at it and then he
gets promoted into the thing and then
like I don't know it was never really
satisfying I don't even know that
Chandler enjoyed it all that much they
never really like delved deeply into it
in a in a meaningful way and then once
he has that job it's just like Chandler
has the job let's never talk about it
again and finally okay finally PB gets a
serious love English
the Roadster I like Paul Rudd hey I
think he's even come out and been like I
don't think my character was anything
more than just like a cardboard cutout
prop just to kind of move Phoebe forward
I was happy she got into a relationship
that that meant something to her I like
seeing her happy and like I said before
I think this is when I started to relate
to Phoebe other people have probably
related to Phoebe for a long time this
is when I started to connect to her but
she had the plot specifically about the
wedding I don't want to touch on it yet
I want to go chronologically a little
bit the rap thing hey she just has rats
in her apartment that she just allows to
run around in her cupboards
I think I just saw a rat in your
cupboard yeah no that's Bob Phoebe just
come on Gavin talk about gab my notes
say talk about Gavin
who the hell is Gavin he's tag 2.0
apparently in my notes I couldn't I
couldn't tell you every single thing
about Gavin was there a Gavin my brain
didn't just like dream him up and then
oh oh yeah talk about I have no
recollection of this man hey if he was
if if there was a Gavin in friends this
is him I have no idea and Hey listen
we're low on plots so let's talk about
the editing of the show oftentimes when
the actors they do bits they'll do it
multiple times and sometimes one actor
will have a good take and then another
actor will have a different take that's
good and then they'll stitch them
together you can't do that though when
there's a ball bouncing around see what
happens is Joey he spins a basketball he
like bounces off the end table and goes
to the wall but then they cut to Ross
and Chandler on the couch and now the
basketball is behind a channel I can't I
can't I can't with continuity stuff man
I shut up I get it I got a haircut in
the middle of a video I didn't think
this would be a three-day shoot shut up
I don't care there's also a plot in
season nine where uh Chandler is still
working in Tulsa he hasn't quite yet and
he comes back early but he tells Joey
I'm not gonna be back on this a certain
date because secretly he wanted to spend
time with Monica
his wife but he felt like he couldn't
tell Joey that he needed to spend the
night with his wife can't know that I'm
here why not because I didn't know how
to tell him that I couldn't go to the
Knicks game so I just told him I had to
stay in Tulsa so instead he tries to
sneak back and then Joey hears Monaco
with a man and Chandler said he's not
gonna be back that night so he thinks
Monica is cheating I thought I heard a
man's voice before I think Monica's
cheating on you Chandler you're home
that's right your husband's home so now
the sex can stop
I think the worst part about that like
listen as a sitcom plot I wouldn't talk
too much about it if it wasn't for this
ending where they specifically go out of
their way to have this like moment where
Joey's like what do you think I'm too
stupid he's almost like insulted by that
what do you think I'm too dumb to
understand that a husband needs to be
with his wife and then in comedic
fashion he ends up hitting himself with
the bats which funny right they think
I'm like but then weirdly just like a
minute later Joey and Chandler are in
the hallway and Chandler's like hey man
I just want to let you know no one
thinks you're stupid
and all of them have been true like
that's not even like jokes it's just
observations and I want you to know that
nobody thinks you're stupid thanks man
and then you follow that up with Joey
being stupid the reason he wanted to
hang out with Chandler is because he had
tickets to uh Nick's game that's why he
needed to hang out with Chandler on this
specific night where you going games
tomorrow night Joe so the plot ends up
with joy being dumb which is funny it is
like objectively really funny like all
of it could have been avoided if Joey
just wasn't dumb but to have a moment
where it's like hey Joey no one thinks
you're dumb like that's not true and
then also the rest of the plot is just
revolves around how Joey's done there
really isn't a whole lot of plot in the
the last half of season nine it's
there's a there's like a plot where
Chandler and Ross go to a bed and
breakfast and it's expensive so they
decide to steal a bunch of like small
stuff like batteries and salt and it's
like uh okay I don't know season nine
these are adults now it just feels dumb
so let's head into the uh the MVP for
the season and then go into the final
season the MVP is Ross why because [ __ ]
you I don't care he just is don't
there's the there's an Integrity to the
process and Ross is the MVP but I don't
I can't explain it so shut up
season 10. oh my God I'm so tired all
right so episode two Chandler uh
Chandler Ross catches Joey
no other way around I'm frantic Joey
catches Ross kissing his girlfriend
which hurts Joey again because Joey just
he's super loyal and everyone just keeps
betraying him and Joe he's like all
right we'll screw you Ross on I'll just
go make out with Rachel then so I think
this is the first scene where Rachel and
Joey are together Rachel has been pining
after Joey for like a couple episodes
now Ross finds out that uh Rachel and
Joy are gonna give it a try and uh but
this is funny at least I'm fine I'm fine
totally fine because really I'm fine
okay so this is the end of of Rachel and
Joey it started in season eight a lot of
Preamble a lot of will they won't they
he confesses his feelings she rejects
him but then she accepts his marriage
proposal but it wasn't actually
proposing there's been a lot that's
going on and eventually they decide to
give it a try now there are feelings for
each other are pretty serious like Joey
dropped the l-bomb before like even like
as he was confessing his feelings
I'm falling in love with you Rachel has
been pining up for him very hard
although then again Rachel is pined
after guys really hard and then just
like turned her feelings off like a
switch so I don't know how much that
means they finally decide that they
cannot be together because wait for it
it's a little bit awkward as they're
taking it to the next level
that's the reason let me tell you if a
little awkwardness leading into sex is a
deal breaker for relationships then I'm
gonna be single forever it's just
something you gotta work through the
show wins some points for me though when
uh when Rachel slaps Joey
that's funny I don't know there's some a
physical humor I I enjoy it oh I guess
oh for some reason I thought Phoebe got
married in season nine she gets married
in season 10 and uh I think this is
probably my favorite Phoebe plot out of
all the Phoebe plots it's them donating
the money that they would have otherwise
used on the wedding they donated it to a
like children's charity we took the
money we were gonna spend on a wedding
and we donated it to a children's
charity and Phoebe feels good about that
because she gives back the children in
need because she was in need once and
then she starts thinking but I kind of
wanted a nice wedding because I didn't
have nice things growing up and I kind
of want something nice now so then they
go back to the charity being like hey we
kind of need that money back a donation
we made earlier we want we want it back
this is probably a good thing we've
really been spoiling the children but
with all the food and warm clothing that
is a funny setup for a plot listen that
is great and then they just keep
one-upping it because now Phoebe feels
bad for taking from the children what
she had already given so now they go
back to give the money back we're back
but but then Phoebe's like but I kind of
really want this wedding so then they
finally they just keep going back to
this this guy who just gets more and
more fed up with they have a big
donation and then they took it away and
then they gave it back and now they took
it away again finally he just rejects it
and he's like hey go have your wedding
you psychopath I really enjoyed that and
it's kind of funny too because uh I
think the wedding gets ruined and
because like a snowstorm so they just
get married on the street anyways
Chandler brought a tear to my eye
legitimately when uh he has to convince
a woman to give him her baby you what
adoption uh I never covered that like he
wasn't trying to coerce a woman to give
him her baby like he wants to adopt her
child let's cover that so so Monica and
Chandler one of them is infertile and uh
they decide to to adopt and this woman
is putting up her child for adapt so
they try to boo her and Chandler gives a
a moving speech about why she should
give them her baby I love my wife more
than anything in this world it kills me
that I can't give her a baby and when
that day finally comes I'll learn how to
be a good dad but my wife she's already
there
she's a mother without a baby Chandler
also brought a tear to my eye a few
episodes later but not because of a
moving performance because of how mailed
in his performance was it almost made me
cry because it was so pathetic I I'm
telling you I don't think he gave a
single [ __ ] in this entire episode it's
a pretty fun episode it's like a
flashback episode to the college days
it's like a little bit more backstory
and I like a lot of that stuff except
outside of the one episode where they
retconned Chandler Monica's relationship
I like a lot of their past stuff and
Chandler in this episode listen when
Chandler is on he is fantastic he is a
riot but it's like 50 50 if he's gonna
be like putting effort in or if he's
just gonna completely mail it in and
collect his paycheck and go home Ross
Monica and Rachel all in this episode
they all play like a past version of
their character so Rachel is a little
bit more insecure and so is Monica and
Ross is even more Awkward like over time
they eventually grew out of that but
this is a past episode so they're all
playing a more insecure and immature
version of their future selves Chandler
is a is just Chandler he's this is like
future Chandler and he's just like screw
it I'm just gonna beat I'm Chandler shut
up also his hands must have been cold
this day because they're in his pocket
all episode I do feel bad for Chandler a
little bit though because uh Phoebe is
mean to him Phoebe's having her little
pre-wedding rehearsal and Chandler tries
a joke and Phoebe's like hey I thought
your wedding gift to me is you would
just shut your [ __ ] mouth what did we
say was your one gift to us no stupid
jokes I thought that was for the actual
wedding rehearse it but yeah but again
If Phoebe she got married again I
thought it was season nine and season 10
here actually I'm happy for her the
sense of normalcy I love that for her
she can finally get the traditional
family she's always wanted and uh yeah
it's good for her
actually you know what I'm thinking
right now Phoebe's a massage therapist
and uh you know it's not every day that
it's the massage therapist that gets the
happy ending
Joey 10 seasons no serious romantic love
interests I got you got that one actress
girl in season three but she had to move
and Rachel who like it was like maybe
would happen but it doesn't feel right
and then she needs him in the balls one
time and they're just like okay this can
never happen despite us being in love
with each other what needed the balls
also chill voice Jesus Kenny I know I'd
like Joey and Rachel it doesn't make a
whole lot of sense I'm happy that they
just stayed friends
ah that's where the title of the show
comes from they're all friends it just
occurred to me it's like a little Easter
egg oh I didn't find it ironic that uh
that Monica couldn't get pregnant but
then she's very clearly pregnant at the
end of the show at first I just kind of
suspected it just got like she had like
a certain glow to her and then also like
she was wearing very specific clothing
but then I I knew for sure when the
child that they were about to adopt they
that was about to get born the joke is
that Monica is flustered and she's the
one that needs to sit down and take a
break and then the the pregnant mother
was about to give birth is the one that
seemed like just breathe that's the joke
honey it's gonna be okay you can do this
just breathe but as soon as she sits
down Chandler rushes over and puts like
like a blanket or coat in front of her
belly like hide any bump from the
audience and the cameras as soon as he
did that I was like oh 100 Rachel is
leaving for
Paris maybe I don't care I don't
remember why she's going to Italy she
got like a job offer it's like a dream
job too right she's like very excited
about this how did the job stuff go he
offered me one congratulations this is
amazing it's so much better than what I
had at Ralph Lauren and she gives like
really nice oh this is actually like
great closing episode goodbyes to
everybody and she makes the rounds she
has like a nice goodbye with Chandler
with Monica with Phoebe and she's so
wonderful I just want to say that I I
love you and I'm gonna miss you and I'm
so sad that you're leaving we don't get
to see her goodbye conversation with
Joey which is on one hand unfortunate
because I think that would have been
really meaningful to hear them what they
had to say to each other but then on the
other hand not showing the conversation
was used for a joke that I thought was
pretty good that Joey seems to be
handling it surprisingly well
Jennifer Aniston she's a great actress
so good in these goodbyes with like a
lot of giving the proper emotion but
then she also like leaves room for
Chandler to make his jokes and then when
it's other people she like imbues the
conversation with a certain amount of
like drama and emotion I she does such a
good job in her final conversation with
Ross see Ross ticked off so she gives a
uh like a final farewell goodbye a
one-on-one with everybody except Ross
and that takes Ross off what I don't get
a goodbye so he can find stories like
why did you not give me a goodbye it's
because you don't care she's like no
it's because I care more
you really think I didn't say goodbye to
you because I don't care I can't even
begin to explain to you how much I am
gonna miss you and she's wonderful in
the scene it's so good and Ross is good
as well but like serious moments
Jennifer Aniston is better and I think
the show did a wonderful job executing
the finale of of Ross and Rachel like
the whole Ross tries to chase her to the
airport but he goes to the wrong airport
and then he has to hurry over to the
real airport and he just barely catches
her and it's like last minute she's like
no I have to get on this plane I can't
do this right now
Rachel
and then she's on the plane and she's
like oh I gotta get off this plane in
the feed he comes in with the assist
there's something wrong with the the
left phalange which is kind of like a
call back to multiple jokes throughout
the seasons her friend has a feeling
something's wrong with the left phalange
there's no phalange oh my God this plane
didn't even have a phalange that all
gets handled super well she's trying to
get off the plane they're not allowing
her and then this is all being played
through a voicemail that she left on the
phone I'm sorry
and the voicemail cuts off and Ross is
like did she do have the planes and she
got the plane I got off the plane
that's so it's so sweet but before we
talk about the finale like the final
shot and everything and we close it out
let's talk about Ross and Rachel Ross
and Rachel
Rachel and Ross that's been one heck of
a seesaw hasn't it so the reason Rachel
didn't go to to Rome was because rosh
had to convince her to stay and she
already quit her job and the boss of the
job she quit was like yeah I'm glad to
see her gone hi me again important
distinction I need to make because I
said she quit she did not quit she was
fired they said we don't want you
working here we could have you but we
don't want you that's what this company
said I want you to keep that in mind as
I talk more about how Ross tries to get
Rachel her job back just know they do
not want her here but Ross in an effort
to to get her to stay wants to get her
old job back and so he goes to the boss
and he's like hey how about you rehire
this person you don't want working here
and in return I will give you a dinosaur
egg that's fake and also plastic and the
guy's like you have yourself a deal when
it's like dog that thing is what 50
bucks maybe a replica egg that you could
go buy in order to rehire a person you
don't want working there and then Rachel
turns down the offer they fire me and
then out of nowhere they just hired me
back so you're not going to Paris no
still going well when the Louis Vuitton
people found out that Ralph Lauren
wanted me back they offered me more
money than Ross has to go back and be
like hey not only do you have to give
the job back but you also have to give
her like a raise to keep her here how
would you feel about offering her a
raise
not good Ron can you return I'll give
your son like a a tour of a museum and
the guy's like you have yourself ideal
which is just crazy I think Rachel's
like a high level employee too like a
raise for her isn't like 20 cents an
hour we're talking like tens of
thousands of dollars annually to an
employee that you don't even want
working there and he's like yes deal I
get that I get that egg that's not real
awesome worth it like I I I I I I I I I
I
oh and it's so so stupid and Rachel's
like no my dream job is in Germany there
I have to go and my thing is it's so
strange because I know Ross likes his
job and he's a he's a tenured professor
now but like he could be anywhere he
doesn't need to stay here and Rachel we
saw her go from waitress to getting into
fashion working a job she doesn't like
working her way up and finally like
Landing her dream job now and she
instead turns it down to continue
working at the place that she wanted to
quit from who was I looking forward to
going to Paris sure you know I was
excited about working in the fashion
capital of the world oh absolutely yeah
but you know this is I'm fine going back
to a job where I've pretty much gotten
everything out of it that I possibly can
so that she can stay with Ross who she's
been with and has had a failed
relationship with I don't uh I don't
know that doesn't feel right I feel like
Ross should have left with Rachel and
their child to start afresh where she
has her dream job Ross could have got a
job as a paleontologist or as a
professor over there in Spain like that
would have been entirely possible and
frankly more realistic because Ross
doesn't feel like he has many ties like
Chandler Monica they're moving out
they're they're moving away it feels
like Ross would have been lost anyway
like it's time to move on I don't know I
hated that it's a missed opportunity
Russia went with her and you know what's
weird the office did the same thing I
think at the end of their Series where
Jim gets his dream job and Pam's like no
I want you to work the same job with me
in the office forever even though you
hate it and Jim's like okay let's do
that then when a character has a huge
opportunity why are you choosing to just
stay in the same place always like the
show is about progressing through your
life life not just playing it safe I
don't I hated that you might say hey
Dylan what about Ross's other child Ben
Ross would have to leave him and my
argument against that is are we sure
this little fucker's even alive still we
haven't seen him in how long he could be
dead for all we know maybe he could just
he can go Ross can go I will say like
this I I talked about how much I love
this this whole scene as soon as they
started moving towards the door and the
actors started kind of getting choked up
being like
well this is it I guess this is it yeah
I like physically my whole body was like
come back come back no no don't leave I
wasn't prepared and a God dang it that
last shot the the door I oh the show
ended and I was just hit I felt
emptiness I felt sadness despair I was
just ruined I felt I I genuinely felt
like emptiness after the show was over
and it's crazy I didn't think I was
gonna feel that way for as much as I
criticized or nitpick in this video I I
do want to just reiterate how much I
enjoyed this show and how many of the
scenes made me actually laugh and I have
a Nostalgia for this show that I've
never had like I had seen episodes
before but I never felt any sort of
connection with the show I now have that
Nostalgia going through this experience
of watching and binging all of it oh I
forgot season 10 MVP hold on season 10
MVP is what do you think it is guys
who's it gonna be it is the entire cast
as much as people could complain about
this character that character in the end
I think they all shine very brightly and
I think all of them are pretty important
to the show and bring something that
wouldn't be brought to the show
otherwise there is an asterisk though
that's oh the asterisk says especially
Ross
so the entire cast but especially Ross
so there is one last envelope that's
unmarked
we covered all the seasons so it says
here is the MVP for the entire show oh
so we have a show MVP one bonus MVP
award the MVP for the show
is you you sitting at home watching this
video by watching this video you've by
proxy essentially watched Friends with
me and you were the friend alongside me
the entire time you
are the MVP
it's kind of cringe isn't it shut up Joe
I'm trying to get them to like the video
okay oh yeah no uh yeah you guys are
very special you're the MVP
and MVPs hit the like button now listen
Okay this was a journey I had a I had a
blast watching the show this show felt
like a reliable friend that's I think
that's the best way I can describe it
the show wasn't the funniest show I've
ever seen it wasn't the most consistent
it didn't have like the most satisfying
character arcs but it was always a show
that I felt like I I knew I was gonna
turn it on and for the vast majority of
the time I was gonna have a fun the show
felt familiar I knew I was gonna get it
felt like it was gonna be there for me
and that's that's that that's the line
of the song I'll be there for you that's
kind of what the show felt like for me I
want to thank you for watching this
video eventually down the line I'll do
this for the office as well once I
rewatch the entire office I did it once
and then I forgot I have a bunch of
notes but I forgot I'm gonna just watch
it again hopefully you enjoyed this
video tell me which jokes you liked in
the comment section specifically I want
time stamps people I had a blast I hope
you enjoyed watching this I know this is
going to be incredibly long and then
again so am I have you seen me I am so
long thank you for watching I love you
guys and I'll see you next time
[Music]
thanks
