bad time to say the wrong name harass
that's true thanks Dad
welcome to Ms Mojo and today we're
counting down our picks for the top 20
unscripted friends moments that were
kept in the show
he doesn't speak much English
for this list we'll be looking at the
best moments from this sitcom that were
reportedly improvised somehow born out
of a spontaneous moment or not included
in the script that made it either to air
or into the uncut DVD version which of
these gems is your favorite let us know
in the comments
number 20 Rachel's bagpipe reaction in
2017 Lisa Kudrow told e that her
favorite episode of Friends was the one
with Joey's new brain you're not going
to believe it my character is coming out
of his coma
and not only that I'm getting a new
brain
Joey's or rather Dr ramore's new brain
is certainly entertaining but Kudrow's
love for the episode has more to do with
the part where she sings As Ross plays
the bagpipes we have to admit that this
scene is one of the funniest the sitcom
ever produced in fact you might be
familiar with the classic outtake in
which none of the cast can hold it
together
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
while Kudrow was able to get through it
in the version that made the show you
can see Jennifer Aniston breaking again
we'd say that was unplanned
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
number 19 noisy name is this the first
time you're seeing Emma yeah I think so
it's nice to meet you Emma
Phoebe oh that's a funny noise
when Christina Applegate guest starred
on the show is Rachel's Sister Amy she
had some great moments and pieces of
dialogue but one of the best bits is her
getting Phoebe confused with Emma and
then not grasping why Phoebe repeats her
real name to her it leads to her asking
well it turns out that hysterical quote
wasn't part of the original script in
fact Applegate revealed to today that it
was penned on the day of shooting
literally quote in front of the audience
and yes the actress loves it too talk
about a great rewrite and I say why does
she keep making that noise that was
written like as a rewrite in front of
the audience and it was just I thought
it was hilarious I felt very lucky that
I got to say that number 18 water in
Joey's face for the big post Super Bowl
episode friends brought in a bunch of
guest stars including Julia Roberts and
Brooke Shields I'm Susie Moss
fourth grade glasses I used to carry
around a box of animal crackers like a
purse
Susie Moss Shields was Erica a stalker
who didn't grasp that Joey was an actor
and believed him to be his Days of Our
Lives character Dr Drake ramore unable
to convince her otherwise the friends
tell her that he's really romore's
horrible twin Drake what are you getting
at
I'm not Drake that's right he's not
Drake he's
Huns ramore Drake's evil twin
to bring the LIE home Rachel and Monica
throw water in Joey's face but the
funniest bit is when Chandler does the
same which rumor has it wasn't scripted
he told me he would run away with me and
he didn't
and you let the toilet seat up you
bastard
unfortunately we weren't able to confirm
this and it may Simply Be hearsay but
Jennifer Aniston's reaction does hint
that it was maybe unplanned we sure hope
so number 17 authentic Branson hey so
what do you find gentlemen in the market
for we got uh scarves souvenir postcards
check this out huh
that's good stuff the friend's trip to
London gave us two of the most memorable
moments in the show's history there was
the beginning of Monica and Chandler's
love story and of course Ross
accidentally saying Rachel at his
wedding but it also might have given us
an unscripted moment featuring one of
the richest men in the world you might
remember Richard Branson as the guy Joey
purchases a hat from
gonna make me choose between you and the
hat I choose the Hat good choice thanks
okay look well Branson reportedly
struggled to get his lines right
possibly from not having properly
memorized them so as The Story Goes the
writers apparently ditched the script in
Branson Matt LeBlanc and Matthew Perry
improvised he's just jealous you'll fit
right in all londoners wear them oh
really then how come no one here
anywhere is wearing one
they're all tourists
number 16 Monkey Business I wanted this
to work so much
all right I'm still in there you know
changing his diapers picking his fleas
but he's just phoning it in we all
remember Marcel the monkey Ross's pet
Capuchin whose stint on friends was
relatively short but certainly memorable
right you probably also know that actor
David Schwimmer wasn't a huge fan of
filming with the two creatures who
played the character so I'd have monkey
grubby hands all over all over and it
just wasn't it was it was time for
Marcel too
to off
but did you know that apparently some of
the capuchin's unplanned actions made it
into the Final Cut of the sitcom as well
trained as they are they were also still
animals and there's a reason the
expression is monkeying around while in
many cases this led to delays in filming
there were reportedly also times where
the unplanned nature of what transpired
resulted in comedy gold
would you leave
my like would you just stop humping me
for two seconds
okay would you just take him away just
take him number 15. Paulo's Italian
foreign
[Music]
if you were wondering if the show had
any Italian writers writing the dialogue
for Rachel's season one boyfriend Paulo
the answer is no well some of the
writers may have been Italian we don't
know but they weren't writing Paolo's
lines in fact no one was Poke uh no ah
[Music]
actor Cosimo Fusco has explained that
the producers gave him a directive to
make up the Italian dialogue as he went
quote I was asked to improvise he said
adding that he made up most of the
Italians spoken by Paulo we may not have
always understood what Paulo was saying
but the actor certainly nailed his
delivery I just say that and that's the
best state in everyone's mind you know I
said
number 14 Joey's dislocated shoulder
friends fans probably remember how Joey
dislocated his shoulder in season three
by jumping on his bed
oh
see Joe that's why your parents told you
not to jump on the bed
but that is until Matt LeBlanc did it
that came while filming the previous
episode in the one where no one's ready
Joey and Chandler are fighting over a
chair and in one scene Joey has to rush
to it before his friend can get there
well the actor fell and landed awkwardly
dislocating his shoulder in the process
and I want just to jump over the coffee
table and somehow tripped and my legs
went up in the air and my shoulder came
out of the socket he had to wear a sling
for a while so the writers had to change
the script for the next episode in order
to account for it thus the falling off
the bed storyline and a whole story
worked out but then uh
Chandler sold me out well I'm sorry Joe
I didn't think the doctor was going to
buy that it just fell out of the socket
number 13 wrong name I Ross Take the
Emily take thee Rachel
as amazing as it would be we're not here
to tell you that raw saying Rachel
instead of Emily at his wedding was a
David Schwimmer ad-lib however it
reportedly happened because of a
previous flub the actor made you see the
writing team didn't have a set plan for
what was going to happen with Ross and
Emily you take your time sweetie I'll be
right out here
she's just fixing her makeup
and I love you
one day while they were rehearsing for a
different episode Schwimmer accidentally
said Rachel instead of Emily in a scene
the instant that happened writer Greg
malins told co-creator David crane quote
that's it and the IRAs take the Rachel
moment was born Emily
shall I go on
he said
he said remember 12 does a bear in the
season 7 episode the one with the cheap
wedding dress Ross and Joey both start
dating the same girl Ross this is Joey
Joey Ross hi hi it's nice to meet you
yeah I used to have a friend named Joey
I don't anymore
the ensuing conundrum culminates in a
hysterical back and forth with each
other trying to embarrass the other in
front of her needless to say she ends up
leaving the two guys alone for dinner
all right have you ever gotten stuck in
a pair your own mother pants hey hey
have you ever locked yourself in a TV
cabinet VD boy
monkey lover
this led to Matt leblanc's seemingly
improvising a line that didn't make it
into the episode that aired on NBC but
is in the uncut DVD version you hungry
there's a bear in the woods
the language used obviously wasn't what
you call TV friendly but the moment sure
is memorable number 11 grabbing the lamp
he's talking to London why did he get in
touch with Emily
but no I'm not yet he's calling everyone
on her side of the family hoping that
someone will help me get in touch with
her have you ever been so excited about
something that you handed someone a lamp
we can't say we have but Ross was in
season five when Emily called from
London to talk to him he runs over to
the couch and in his excess of
enthusiasm hands Chandler the lamp hello
Ross Emily
Emma oh my God oh my God exactly it's
Emily everyone
it's a great moment but rumor has it
it's one that the writers hadn't thought
of apparently this one came from the
mind of David Schwimmer why or how he
decided to do it we don't know but if
it's true we are so glad he did we
should also mention the comic mind of
Matthew Perry who not only takes the
object but hilariously holds on to it
for a while she's
three
three
number 10 worst hangover
hello
the gang's trip to Vegas is a memorable
one but its aftermath is perhaps the
most notable part Ross and Rachel
drunkenly get married which is well
awkward for them since they're currently
in the off part of their on off
relationship we weren't going to miss
our friends getting married
wait
you did hello
Ross's insistence on trying to make the
marriage work leads her to become
increasingly exasperated this culminates
in a line Jennifer Aniston improvised
reportedly they had to edit out the
audience's laughter at this take number
nine real tears
hello
[Laughter]
given how long the show went on it can
be easy to forget that Ross Begins the
series going through a divorce his early
attempts to get back into the dating
world don't get off on the right foot
either since his first date in years
sees him run into his ex-wife Carol
maybe I screwed up the first date I had
in nine years that could be it oh God
determined to make things better Ross
implores Carol for a chance to make
their marriage work
here's a wacky thought
um
let's say you and I give it another shot
actress Jane sibbetts welling up with
tears during the scene was real and
unscripted she said in an interview that
she was just so moved by David
schwimmer's performance
you know you keep saying that but
there's something right here I love you
this is also not the only time Civic got
emotional while filming her tears were
real when she gave birth to Ben at the
end of season one as it was filmed soon
after she had given birth to a son in
real life
is here
he's a person
oh my God
I don't like my Uncle Ed covered in
jello number eight prank yeah you like
that one yeah you're funny
I'm funny
oh thank God When Rachel is asked to
watch Ross's son Ben she wants to be
known to him as fun so to endear herself
to Ben she teaches the boy about
practical jokes Ross isn't amused at
first because Ben does several of the
pranks on him
what
then I can't do it what oh you get
something here on your bed what after
allowing Rachel to watch Ben again
Rachel tells Ross about a sign tape to
his back prompting father to chase son
into the hall and onto the stairs which
he then appears to fall down well you
are in big trouble young man no it's
actually a dummy that Ross and Ben are
pranking her with but Rachel's shocked
reaction was genuine from Aniston
The Producers neglected to tell her
about it to prompt her to deliver a more
authentic performance
number seven call for Bob this episode
sees Chandler get a phone call by
mistake for someone named Bob from a
woman with an attractive voice named
Jade I barely had the nerd
after me so you know what I did what I
got a little drunk
and naked Bob here pretending to be Bob
he sets up a fake date with her and then
steps in when Bob doesn't show however
his plan goes awry as Jade calls Bob to
tell him it didn't go well so uh how was
he
eh
the final scene shows Jade leaving a
message on the machine which is
overheard by Joey
hi it's me
it's me Jane's description of what she
wants to do with Bob prompts him to trip
over himself to get to the phone but if
for all time's sake
one
[Music]
although Joey picking up the phone was
scripted his hilarious tripping was
accidental on Matt leblanc's part and it
was so funny they left it in number six
cabinet smack Chandler has a lot of
unfortunate romances before he finds the
one and one of the most dangerous love
interests is Rachel's boss Joanna okay
but if you don't come back soon
there's pretty much nothing I can do
about it while fooling around in her
office Joanna leaves Chandler handcuffed
in there and without any pants things
only get more embarrassing When Rachel
discovers him there
hmm
events reach Peak funny though when
Chandler punctuates his request to be
freed by accidentally opening the filing
cabinet drawer he's cuffed to and
hitting himself in the head I'm gonna
say this for the last time
would you please just
apparently this was not in the script
and Jennifer Aniston can be seen
covering her mouth to maintain her
composure naturally it was too good not
to include in the episode number five
Williams and Crystal one of the most
memorable openings and cameos in friends
history sees two men played by Billy
Crystal and Robin Williams enter the
gang's usual coffee shop and then engage
in a loud conversation so I go over
there
oh it's a little crowded do you mind if
we said yeah could you scooch oh thank
you
Thomas played by Williams tearfully
confesses to Tim played by Crystal that
he believes his wife is cheating on him
hey why is wrong with me what's the
matter team I have a feeling
I my wife is sleeping with her
gynecologist
Tim eventually confirms that it was he
that was sleeping with his friend's wife
prompting Thomas to storm off in anger
enough and you are no longer my friend
we are finished not a no more you are a
bastard for doing that come on get away
from me the entire scene was reportedly
improvised by everyone involved
including Williams and Crystal Matt
leblanc's Interruption and Courtney
Cox's declaration that she can't even
remember what she wanted to tell her
friends
so Michael what were you going to tell
us
I have no idea
if we were doing quantity of lines
improvised this would easily be number
one
number four blue blazer black when Joey
is down on his luck for having
difficulty finding acting work Ross
helps him get a job as a Museum tour
guide hey you guys check it out check it
out guess what job we just got however
when the rest of the group sees Joey and
his bright new uniform Chandler can't
resist making fun of him I don't know
but Donald Trump wants his blue blazer
black
but his awkward insult that Donald Trump
wants his blue blazer black was an
actual mistake made by actor Matthew
Perry who plays her back he
you said black
why would he want his blue blazer black
similarly the rest of the actors mocking
him for his mix-up was not in the script
and it was all in character enough that
the creators left the moment in because
it was blazingly funnier than the real
line well you you know what I meant
no you messed it up
stupid
number three pages stuck first there's a
layer of ladyfingers then a layer of jam
then custard which I made from scratch
one of the show's famous Thanksgiving
episodes also gave rise to one of its
greatest improvised and filthiest jokes
one plot line features Rachel making a
trifle which ends up containing beef and
peas of all things then raspberries more
lady fingers than beef sauteed with peas
and onions
and then bananas and then I just put
some whipped cream on top when trying to
get to the bottom of the confusion Joey
and Ross find out that Rachel has
accidentally made half a trifle and half
a shepherd's pie due to the recipe Pages
being stuck together oh my God
the pages are stuck together Chandler
upon finding this out Joey immediately
yells Chandler's name in admonishment
for supposedly being responsible for the
sticky situation according to the
commentary this was made up on the spot
number two Q-tip quip hey anybody know a
good tailor the season 2 premiere finds
Chandler having an unfortunate
experience with a tailor when inquiring
to his friends about going to see one
Chandler is recommended to the Craftsman
by Joey boo hens and Haws about when
exactly he first went to his tailor I
should go see Frankie my family's been
going to him forever he did my first
suit when I was 15. no way
16. no excuse me 15.
all right when was 1990.
Joey's poor memory and Incredibly stupid
questions about when a particular year
was prompt Chandler to deliver a
spectacularly scathing quip about
stopping a Q-tip when there's resistance
in the ear okay you have to stop the
Q-tip when there's resistance
the remark was invented on the spot by
Matthew Perry and it remains one of the
actors favorite lines he ever said on
the show before we continue be sure to
subscribe to our Channel and ring the
bell to get notified about our latest
videos you have the option to be
notified for occasional videos or all of
them if you're on your phone make sure
you go into your settings and switch on
notifications number one last laugh if
that falls off the truck it wouldn't be
the worst thing
as sad as the final moments of friends
are given the 10 years of laughter and
joy that preceded them there are still
of course some funny times
seems smaller somehow
is it always been purple
one such case is the final line of the
series once everyone has packed up their
things and goodbyes have been made the
gang decides they have time to get
coffee do you guys have to go to the new
house right away or do you have some
time
foreign
okay should we get some coffee ever a
reverend Chandler sarcastically asks
where they'll get coffee as if they
won't be going to Central Perk sure
okay where
Matthew Perry reportedly delivered this
final quip off the cuff leaving one last
Mark of his own on the series
do you agree with our picks check out
this other recent clip from mismo Joe
and be sure to subscribe and ring the
bell to be notified about our latest
videos
