[Music]
all right all right right let's play one
more time okay and remember if I win you
do not move to Paris okay can't believe
I'm risking this again but you're on all
right Joe you remember the rules heads I
win tails you lose just
flip do Tails damn
it hey so we thought we'd throw your
little going away party around 7 oh that
sounds good hey ra you're leaving
tomorrow shouldn't you be packing it's
all done oh yeah right
and after I took a shower this morning I
just threw my towel on the
floor oh God it hurts to even joke about
it I know funy seriously I did it all
the luggage that I'm taking is in the
bedroom this is Emma's Paris stuff these
are the boxes that I'm having shipped
and that's the sandwich that I made for
the plane okay so you've done some good
work what about your carry-ons oh well
everything that I need is in here and my
travel documents are on the counter
organized in the OR order that I will be
needing them oh my God I have nothing
left to teach
you where's your passport it should be
right next to my plane ticket well it's
not what well maybe I put it in here oh
oh it's not in there oh no I must have
packed in one of these boxes here let me
help you
shoot oh can't believe I did this at
what point did it stop being funny that
I took her p
[Music]
what
