I use it to buy all this stuff
but look I got another job tomorrow so
I'll pay you back with the money I make
from that oh okay oh sorry I acted like
a bank welcome to Ms Mojo and today
we're counting down our picks for the
top 10 dark truths about friends your
disease is just outside just doing one
arm push-ups just waiting just waiting
for you waiting to get you alone because
alone you lose for this list we're
looking at some less than happy behind
the scenes facts about the show and at
stars no one could have told the cast of
Friends it was going to be that way
feeling stuck in second gear leave us a
comment below and you'll feel a whole
lot better
number 10. Jennifer Aniston almost quit
before the final season the question of
when to end a television show isn't
always an easy one you know what um I
have some goodbye stuff that I wanted to
say to each of you and I was going to
save it until the end of the night but
come here sure sometimes the network
makes the decision for you but when the
show is a hit deciding when to call it
quits can often come down to the actors
themselves with friends that decision
was reportedly almost made by Jennifer
Aniston after season nine so I don't
think I should do it anymore
I'm gonna give you my week's notice what
gone through I quit Aniston didn't know
if there were any more stories worth
telling and as she admitted to Matt
Lauer in 2004 quote I wanted it to end
when people still loved us and we were
on a high who knows if they would have
done a 10th season without Rachel but
we're glad we never had to find out no
no
we have to get off the plane
I got off the plane
number nine Jennifer Aniston hated the
Rachel haircut if you were a woman in
the mid 90s there's a good chance that
at some point you went into your local
hair salon and asked for the Rachel
haircut and don't worry you weren't
alone women everywhere were doing it you
got plugs careful careful they haven't
quite taking it
and you got lenses
sticking your finger in your eye 11
million in Britain alone admitted to
giving the do a try but how did the
woman who started it all feel about the
look well when Aniston first got the cut
she loved it isn't this exciting I
earned this I white tablespoort I
steamed milk for it and it was totally
not worth it but those feelings changed
pretty quickly when quote I was totally
left with this frizzy mop on my head
because I had no idea how to do what my
stylist did as she described it
maintaining the look was a high
maintenance Escapade involving a blow
dryer and multiple brushes number eight
Andre Agassi was extremely jealous when
Brooke Shields guest starred in January
of 1996 tennis player Andre Agassi
smashed all of his trophies and ripped
up the walls in the room where he kept
them in his house why did he do that no
no no no
you don't have to tell me anything you
don't have to explain yourself to me oh
who am I to question the great Dr Drake
Remora was it because of a bad call on
the court nope it was because Brooke
Shields licked Matt leblanc's finger no
seriously
these hands these Miracle magical
life-giving heads oh just to be near
them touch them maybe even lick one
Shields had scored a guest role on the
season two the one after the Super Bowl
episode of Friends in said episode she
goes on a date with Joey and licks his
hand Agassi and shields were dating at
the time and according to Agassi hand
licking even scripted hand licking was
quote over the line I know about you too
I saw you today kissing in the doctor's
Lounge
is that what you think you think it was
you told me I was the only one seeing it
sent him into a rage and he took that
anger out on his tennis trophies number
seven Matt leblanc's onset injury
remember the episode where Joey injures
his arm falling off his bed
see Joe that's why your parents told you
not to jump on the bed no that wasn't
how Matt LeBlanc hurt himself however it
was how the writers Incorporated his
injury into the show the whole story
worked out but then uh
Chandler sold me out well I'm sorry Joe
I didn't think the doctor was going to
buy that it just fell out of the socket
the actual injury took place during the
filming of the previous episode the one
where no one's ready and I want just to
jump over the coffee table and somehow
tripped and my legs went up in the air
and my shoulder came out of the socket
in the in that episode Joey and Chandler
are fighting over who gets to sit in the
comfy chair and at one point they both
go for the seat at the same time in one
take leblanc's dive didn't go as planned
and he ended up dislocating his shoulder
leading to the sling Joey is wearing in
the next episode so we had to put that
into the show but we waited until he was
okay again to film the ending of the one
where no one was ready number six Lisa
Kudrow was sued by her ex manager in
2007 three years after friends ended its
run on NBC Lisa Kudrow fired her manager
Scott Howard and I am furious with him
foreign
calm down
I'm trying but man that guy can push my
buttons in 2008 Howard sued Kudrow
claiming that he was owed a five percent
commission of her residuals from friends
and all other work he negotiated for her
prior to his termination one thing that
made this all more difficult to
determine was the fact that Kudrow and
Howard had an oral rather than written
agreement about it we provided a service
and we deserve to be paid because you
ate that service and um we are not
leaving here until we are paid every
penny because you know what Lenny we're
part-time Caterers and we have no place
else to go however while Kudrow won the
initial summary judgment a California
appeals court reversed the ruling in
2014 and ordered Kudrow to pay Howard
1.6 million dollars and a football phone
okay they didn't say anything about a
football phone but the money part is
accurate football phone
as our free gift do you believe this now
I have a thousand dollars and a football
phone number five the network didn't
love the cast's negotiation tactics each
of the six main cast members were paid
22 500 per episode in the first season
however come the second season each of
the friends was paid a different amount
ranging from twenty thousand to forty
thousand per episode we don't have as
much money as you
okay
okay I hear you we can talk about that
well that wasn't gonna work going
forward the group saw themselves as a
true ensemble cast with no one more
important than the others and beginning
with season three they decided to
negotiate their salary as a group
important your friends or money
[Laughter]
friends the network preferred to do it
separately but the gang held their
ground from that moment forward they
were all paid the same which in Seasons
9 and 10 was 1 million dollars per
episode
and I just want a million dollars series
co-creator Marta Kaufman called that
number quote kind of ridiculous number
four Fame wasn't what David Schwimmer
expected friends was such a huge hit
from the moment it premiered that it
didn't just bring Fame to its Stars it
brought a mega level of Fame that is
hard to understand I'm not playing
tonight why not
I can't follow Ross
bicycle riding chimps who had to follow
the Beetles ew for David Schwimmer it
was it was just hard to deal with so
much so that it didn't just affect him
but his relationships with other people
as well Ross Stellar Ross Geller why do
I know that name it's a
wait
did you ride this as he told the
Hollywood reporter's podcast Awards
chatter back in 2016. quote it was
pretty jarring and it took years I think
for me to adjust to it and become
comfortable I don't know why it's coming
out all loud and squeaky because really
I'm fine
foreign
I wasn't a little surprised he was also
an actor who as part of his craft liked
to be anonymous and observe people out
in the world well he sure couldn't do
that anymore either number three Lisa
Kudrow's body issues to fans she was the
beautiful funny smarter than you think
Phoebe I may play the fool at times but
I'm a little more than just a pretty
blonde girl with an ass that won't quit
but when Lisa Kudrow would see herself
on television all she saw was a quote
mountain of a girl Kudrow discussed her
body issues on Marc maron's WTF podcast
and revealed that trying to stay skinny
took a physical toll on her body telling
Marin quote when I was too thin I was
sick all the time so what is it am I
hideously unattractive no you are not
you are very attractive you know what I
go through the exact same thing every
time I put on a little weight I start
questioning everything unfortunately
this societal pressure to be of a
certain body type many people deal with
and being rich and famous obviously
doesn't make it any easier
hello you look great thank you I know
though number two Matt LeBlanc retreated
from The Fame David Schwimmer wasn't the
only one who found it hard to deal with
the fame I can't believe you're
nominated for an Emmy no no I'm
self-oper digest award nope I'm up for a
soapy
honey is that something you're making up
Matt LeBlanc also struggled with it all
and eventually on the verge of a nervous
breakdown needed to walk away for a
while after friends ended and after Joey
was canceled LeBlanc barely left his
house and basically told his agent to
quote please lose my number for a few
years
I
don't feel like
like to worry about you and some of us
really have to pee there's a pretty
amazing silver lining in this Dark Cloud
though as LeBlanc used that time away to
focus his attention on his new daughter
Marina who had been diagnosed with
cortical dysplasia hey
oh how are ya
[Music]
where are your babysitters huh she has
since outgrown the condition and LeBlanc
has called that time they spent together
quote the best thing I've ever done
before we continue be sure to subscribe
to our Channel and ring the bell to get
notified about our latest videos you
have the option to be notified for
occasional videos or all of them if
you're on your phone make sure you go
into your settings and switch on
notifications
number one Matthew Perry's substance use
disorder I fooled around with Joey's
sister oh
well that's not the worst part what is
the worst part I can't remember which
sister we all forget things it's part of
Being Human
friend star Matthew Perry his memory
bank is missing three full years of
filming the show that made him a star
Kathy is sleeping with that guy
oh no so you were right I confronted her
and she didn't deny it
I don't live here after a trip to rehab
in 1997 that didn't stick Perry spent
the next three years or so in a
substance-induced haze unfortunately
that led to pancreatitis a car accident
and that Blank Spot in his memory I
think you're disappearing
and then I went well we'll stop
everything I'm going to rehab right now
stop the movie stop everything Perry's
Rock Bottom came in 2001 and he's been
sober since in 2022 he released a memoir
friends lovers and the big terrible
thing detailing his time with the series
both the good and the bad however deep
it went for me and dark it went for me
that will help somebody who got that
dark
and I kept going do you agree with our
picks check out this other recent clip
from Miz Mojo and be sure to subscribe
and ring the bell to be notified about
our latest videos
