have you ever randomly met a famous
person because we did today so we're
exploring Venice at the moment and I
really wanted to go to Beverly Hills
Hotel for breakfast but they were booked
out so we found another fancy restaurant
instead now I certainly regret this
because this Bagel was 51 Australian
dollars and Jonathan ordered two extra
slices of bacon for 25 my inner Filipino
was crying but as I was walking out I
saw Arnold Schwarzenegger he was
literally sitting with his family having
breakfast Americans tell me this I know
you have so many famous people who live
there but like how normal is it for you
to see famous people out and about and
why was no one fangirling him anyways
while we were shopping teacher wouldn't
stop complaining about things being
blurry she thought she was jet lagged
but I think she needs to get her eyes
checked when we get back to Australia
then she got a massive migraine so we
left her at the hotel and we went for a
ride along the beach and then we had
japa dogs you guys kept telling me to go
try them and they were amazing they did
not disappoint but it wasn't enough and
so we booked a table at the Cheesecake
Factory this meal was over 2 000
calories that's what you're supposed to
eat in one day
