this is my best friend Ginny and yes
most of the time we do look like this
today we were invited into an event from
Netflix and we do not have a nice dress
so we had to go shopping and we bought
these dresses we look like we're going
to a prom in like High School Musical
also can you tell that we're complete
opposites like Jenny is like the black
cat I'm the golden retriever it is a
Vibe anyway we made our way into the
Uber and we are here to watch the new
season of Bridgeton we walk in and
there's a quartet guys I didn't even
know what a quartet was before today and
they were incredible and then we had
some Bubbles and the photographer tried
to make me read I haven't read a book
since year seven everything was so
pretty here though but we made our way
to the fruit table and then we grabbed a
plate of food and we made our way to the
stairwell so we can have a little bit of
a nibble and then Jenny pushed me and
she's like go say hi to the boys so I
said Hi and then we started running yeah
I don't know what that was and then we
sat down and we brought some food in
stopped that's so embarrassing and it
was just about to begin and listen to
this oh
[Music]
[Laughter]
you're being louder
