do you know what freaks me out standing
on the edge of a building and looking
down I almost feel dizzy or like I'm
going to fall off the edge even though
that's not possible it's still so scary
we left Asia in the room while she was
sleeping because you know I'm on a
mission to build my pancake butt and I
want you guys to know something that I
tell my kids if you're trying to get
healthy like me it doesn't mean you have
to stop eating your body needs food
don't starve yourself just try and make
good choices as often as you can but
that was really hard for me today
because this Buffet is amazing if I'm
being honest data and I are a little
scared about what we're doing today
apparently if you have claustrophobia
it's not good and I swear Deja and I
both have that then it was time to face
our fears not the portable toilets even
though that is one of my fears but dark
Spectrum so you go down into this tunnel
they give you a little warning message
before you go in and my heart started to
race they were explaining each room and
what to expect but they also said if you
feel scared at any time you can find a
worker but it wasn't even that scary it
was so much fun and then Jonathan and I
went out for dinner Deja didn't want to
come and she ordered a hundred dollars
worth of room so as well foreign
