do you ever just wake up in the morning
look over at your partner and they're
not there because they're a responsible
human being who's left an hour before
you even wake up which is honestly rude
because he should have called in sick
today because I'm sick today so he could
help me and for the people that I know
didn't catch that it was a joke because
we already know in our souls that moms
can do it all like truthfully tell me
the difference between a mom and a sick
mom trick question because their routine
is exactly the same they're just doing
everything while being sick like I'm not
missing any steps in this routine even
though I feel like crap gray still
picked out her own outfit we ate
breakfast got her to school on time but
today is day three of me being sick so I
am on the up and up I'm also gonna get
ready for the day which I honestly did
not do on day one of being sick and I'm
not really sure what the science is
behind like getting ready and making you
feel better but it's so true like at the
very beginning of my day I was probably
at a 20 whereas after putting on my
makeup getting my bed ready my bed ready
making my bed I'm at like a 55 maybe
pushing even six but I need to make a
stop at Trader Joe's because this is a
mom hack like when you say you don't
want to cook for the night you just
throw one of these in your pan and it's
done for the day and this is what I mean
the epitome of everything still gets
done
