why does everyone hate Planet Fitness
today I woke up got ready and got to
work coaching my clients I was super
happy seeing that one of my clients
officially was 10 pounds down which was
a goal of hers for a really long time
and after we both celebrated that big
milestone I started getting hungry so
when I finished my calls I went to go
make some pasta but I thought it'd be
cool to do an IG live since I haven't
done one in a while so I did one and it
was still getting to chat with all y'all
while meal prepping two days worth of
ground beef penne pasta and it was gas
ask you guys on the live to check how
much protein and calories were in my
food for me online but Samuel just kept
giving me wrong numbers 69 grams yeah
y'all think you're so funny huh and I
got a text from my girl saying that she
ended work early so I decided to go work
out with her but that meant that I had
to go to Planet Fitness which I always
heard bad things about for some weird
reason I don't know why people say this
because I honestly have one of the best
upper body workouts there the machines
are genuinely really nice and some you
can't even find at normal gyms like this
back road that aligns so well with
targeting your lats it was pretty empty
but Loki a little too quiet but
definitely I'm gonna be going back and I
headed home drafted my content for
tomorrow and played some 2K with a
friend before knocking out
