I've missed two runs this week but one
thing I am not doing is feeling guilty
because I have a hard run today and I
need my best energy starting with what I
eat we're 3 hours out so I'm eating
normally but making sure to get some
extra carbs because today I've got to
hold 40 minutes at race Pace 1 hour out
and that good energy has left me I think
I might be spiraling but I've tried to
do this ponytail five times my shoulders
are burning and I'm sweating but I'm
going to try warming up I have no idea
if I can hold my race pce for 40 minutes
because I've never done it so my plan
for today is to break 40 minutes down
into four 10 minute chunks do the first
10 below race Pace next 10 at race Pace
then once in halfway I'll reevaluate I'm
interrupting the voice over I cannot I
just ran a 640 mile for my final mile of
this workout to put this into
perspective my mile PR prior to this
block of training was a
745 and that's like doing just one mile
I ran a 640 at the end of a 40-minute
workout guaranteed I will not shut up
about it so thank you for running with
me
