we filmed over 860 YouTube videos while
traveling the world so here's a little
behind the scenes look at the making of
this week's video we got to the train
station an entire hour early just to
make sure we had enough time to film our
entry Now's the Time I usually make fun
of Nate's filming face he can't help it
but you can thank him for these smooth
shots of this winter wonder we were in
the middle of filming a little lunch
scene when Nate stopped his entire
sandwich in his mouth and literally took
off running to get the Drone because the
train randomly stopped in this cute
Village three hours later we arrived at
the world's largest isotope they saw our
camera and gave us these press passes
which is kind of cool most people can
probably tour the entire Ice Hotel in
about 30 minutes it took us three hours
because we filmed every detail how cool
is this place after putting warmers on
my frozen feet we rewarded our hard work
with drinks in these cups made of ice
and went down the Frozen this is our
home for the night naturally Nate set up
the camera because he's the best and I'm
cool so I'm just chilling in my warm
cocoon but we weren't in there for long
Nate once again sacrificed his Frozen
hands to get the perfect video of the
Northern Lights now go watch this full
episode on our Channel see you tomorrow
