last month I went wedding dress shopping
with my dad and I let her pick my
wedding dress up until this happened
let's all have a moment of silence for
the dress that got ruined in alterations
the seamstress said that she would try
and fix it but my wedding's in four days
and I have no time so a month later and
here we are again did I cry over
absolutely but now I'm in a different
headspace everything's gonna go well
we're gonna find a dress oh yeah did I
mention Grace hates her dress because
it's itchy so there's that she's also
dress shopping too this is the First
dress that Grace tried on and it's funny
because she actually tried this on last
time we were here too Megan was our
stylist at David's Bridal and she
instantly became my best friend like she
helped Grace pick this whole entire look
and then she gave me this dress to try
guys this would have been the dress like
if it was a size smaller but then she
found me this one and I gasped like this
is the one now we will not be touching
these dresses until day of wedding
because we just can't risk it
