did I just get judged by an 11 month old
I think I did Crimson was brushing up
his hair today we had some waffles with
Jam lots of butter on mine because it
tastes way better that way MB thinks
that that's a community water bowl when
it's actually for tuxedo and I keep
telling her honey you are a little human
you are not a little Chihuahua but you
went upstairs with hubby with the big
girls they were folding some laundry and
I heard some commotion and I go up and
look at this kid
with me
sure my little Shadow these days you
guys I turn around and she's there and I
wouldn't have it any other way but we
had some dinner we had some carrot
muffins these girls those Huggies we
really gotta get our winter tires on
this car again it feels like we just
took them off but then we cut it on the
couch and just a warning you guys she's
gonna get
oh really
