here's another realistic morning in my
life as a work from home mom with a
toddler
today is day two of Deacon going to his
new part-time babysitter but he woke up
pretty grumpy
his first molar finally cut through but
he's got three more coming in at the
same time
I also just found out he's dealing with
an ear infection on top of the teething
so he's dealing with all of that pain
and no way to communicate with me but
Deacon tends to express his strongest
emotions when he's with me so he doesn't
really act the same way when he's with
someone else
[Music]
hello
but I still can't help but think that
he'll be difficult for someone else and
they'll just think that he's a difficult
child but I know that's just my mom
guilt trying to take over my brain you
can just cry when I hand him over to the
babysitters now I'm gonna make myself
coffee and try to make myself feel a
little better and get started with work
[Music]
I absolutely loved her first babysitter
so this is just a big adjustment for
both of us I made myself a much needed
coffee and got started on my work day
