my six-year-old literally woke up an
hour earlier for school and she told me
the reason why is because she's trying
to impress somebody she did drop a name
and then I had to go to like the class
photo to see who it was anyway she
wanted to wear one of her new Christmas
outfits and obviously do her hair a
little bit different and while we were
getting ready I thought it was a good
time to just have a little girl chit
chat you know I spent years trying to
impress and find validation in other
people and it just like wasn't worth it
what's important to me is how Grace
feels and thinks about herself like do
we think icons have sleepless nights
thinking of ways to impress one person
absolutely not and Grace is an icon she
was absolutely obsessed with her outfit
and hair and at the end of the day
that's really all that matters
