threw our daughter a big sweet 16
birthday party she's never had a big
party like this before so we wanted to
go all out and celebrate this Milestone
the theme was pink and she wanted it to
be a night where all her closest friends
and family came together to celebrate
she got to meet with a party planner for
the first time which was so fun to see
the ballroom was covered with pink
balloons and pink flowers throughout
instead of formal tables we did a lounge
area for the teens and a snack shop was
set up with Jaden's favorite snacks that
were personalized with her name this is
also where we sung happy birthday to her
and she blew out her Candles there was a
photo booth for printed photos and in
and out was delivered for late night
snacks everyone ate and danced
especially my friend Heather she was
reliving her High School dance days
poppy also had so much fun dancing Jaden
had the best time and was so thankful
for everything full video on my YouTube
channel
