tell me why my six-year-old asked for
pretzel hair today yeah I have no clue
what that means either but we'll figure
it out because today is a big day so our
new glasses came and it'll be her first
day wearing them and Grace is a little
bit nervous but I told her she has
absolutely nothing to be worried about
she is stunning inside and out and
glasses are just an accessory oh and if
you didn't see our last video she also
picked out glasses for me which are just
blue eyeglasses just so I can wear them
so she feels more comfortable but mine
haven't come yet so that'll be a whole
nother video also for not knowing what
pretzel hair is I think I did a
phenomenal job I showed razor glasses
and tell me why her outfit matches
perfectly they're amazing on her she's
gonna have a great day
