you guys know I've been renovating my
Outback home with my dad my dad is a
simple man there's three things he loves
number one my mom number two my dog and
number three gardening no like I'm not
kidding I'm gonna show you guys his
plant collection but first we're
spending the morning together I got on
my swimmers my overalls we made our way
to the bakery it's a Saturday so we've
got to meet pie and a coffee it was the
burst like you just can't beat this we
then took our dog Pippi to the beach and
she loves it I went for a little bit of
a swim it's getting cold now because
winter is coming along but it's still so
pretty now yes he loves my mom and my
dog but you know what he loves gardening
the most well not really but like Loki
he was walking through and he was like
these are Agaves bromeliads yakkas and
succulents and I'm like what he was like
okay Brady choose a plan and I chose
this one because the stems look like
celery it's now time to plant it but
before he had to have a little cuddle
with the cat are you ready to see his
garden this is just one section and you
see the pond there he hand made it in
the pond at these beautiful Koi fish so
that I gave them a little bite to eat
and then my dad pointed to the big rock
and out comes this running stream of
water okay now it's time to plant it we
decided to put it right next to the pond
and there we go it's looking cute okay
bye
