have you ever wondered what it's like to
be Filthy Rich well today I'm going to
show you because we're pretending to be
rich in Beverly Hills so we rented out a
car and we're pretending it's a Lambo
okay because that's what rich people
drive we're heading towards the city
where so many celebrities and
billionaires live anyways we drove to
this place called air one this is where
celebrities do their grocery shopping
today we're getting what I think would
be a rich person's breakfast so I got
overnight oats and they were eight
dollars what the hell I could literally
make this at home for 50 cents oh my God
I sound like my mum I don't think rich
people eat pizza for breakfast but Deja
was not interested in having anything
healthy so she got a pepperoni pizza oh
my God squirrel I wish we had squirrels
in Australia they're so damn cute then
we had Shake Shack guys this is hands
down the best fast food you'll have in
America it is way better than in and out
you have to try it I think the buns are
made from like potatoes I don't know but
they're so soft then we got in our Lambo
drove past David dobrik's pizza shop
he's a rich YouTuber drove past Beverly
Hills Hotel rich people stay here drove
past rich houses then drove past for a
day or dry
