welcome to another Sunday reset with us
we started off with groceries organizing
the fridge and our drink fridge which is
a wine fridge that we use for Capri Suns
maybe one day that will upgrade my mom
was actually here this weekend so she
helped out with the kids so we got to
finish moving in a little more this
weekend I made my calendar for February
a couple days early I'm proud of that
and laid out Hayden's outfits and put
them in her little bins you guys these
have been life-changing for us and it
helped me with some laundry we finished
hanging up more decor and then my
brother came over as well and brought
him it's cousin Brynn he is kidless so
we count Bren as a cousin we finished
hanging up some more Decor in the girls
room and in the day picking some oranges
off our trees and making some homemade
juice which I just got and I'm so
excited about
