come with me to try magnetic nails first
of all me and my sister have been eating
these Mini Eggs like they're mints
anyways I let my followers pick my next
set of nails and somebody said magnetic
nail po I was actually really excited
about this cuz I have not tried it
before and I'm all for trying something
new anytime they file Sky's Nails I love
seeing all the powder on the table also
look at all those colors and look at
Skyla with her K shaped nails believe it
or not those are actually her natural
nails that she grew out something really
cool about the magnetic nail polish is
that depending on where you put the
magnet you can create different effects
and listen I know dual Chrome nail
polish Is Not A New Concept at all but
the fact that my nails changed color
based on the angle and the lighting is
so cool to me I ended up not getting any
fancy designs this time and that's
because I procrastinated booking my nail
appointment for way too long and I
didn't go see my regular nail tech and I
only trust them with design can I hear a
little commotion for these nails though
and also look at my sisters it's giving
Barbie I'm obsessed with the sparkle we
obviously both love how our nails turned
out and now I'm wondering what nails
should I try next
