I'm like 90 positive that my boyfriend's
proposing sometime this week now I only
say that because he's told me like 10
different times to go and get my nails
done and I've just been there oh and he
stole my DSLR camera like as if I
wouldn't notice so for the next couple
of days I'm doing like all the pampery
things first I have to book a facial
with April because one ounce of stress
and Boop my favorite guy has signed up
monthlies to my face Grace was so
patient during my appointment that April
did a little something on her too it's
finally time to get her nails done and
we're so excited now I don't know the
details of the proposal obviously but I
do know that my boyfriend has a ring for
my daughter Grace which is why he sent
both of us to get our nails done which
was so here was my inspo pick the nails
I was going for these are this is what I
got this is what I got send help we're
on TJ Maxx picking up Nails stay tuned
