this morning my six-year-old asked me if
I could create a hairstyle that was a
cross between Anna and Elsa from Frozen
like what am I a wizard I'm not but
pinterested literally was on there for
two seconds and I found something
obviously I had to include a braid I
mean both of them were them so that's
where we started so basically we braided
one side all the way down and now we're
doing the exact same thing on the other
side I checked with the queen to see if
she was approving this thankfully she
was that we could like move on with the
rest of the hairstyle okay in the
Pinterest video I had to watch this like
50 times before I got it so watch
closely watching me do it though it
looks very simple anyways you pull out
the braid a little bit to make it a
little bit more thicker Chris wanted to
give you all a little ASMR brush and
this is the look she loved it and now
she has the giggles
