who doesn't steal things from hotels
when they check out I mean the crown
Hotel even has shoe polish even though
I've literally never polished my shoes
in my life you know I'm taking it after
the gym we went and had some breakfast
did you know on this day last year there
were 1.9 million of you following my
little family and now there's over 4.5
million isn't that crazy we're about to
enter a new chapter of Our Lives because
my daughter is planning on moving out
this year so I'm trying to spend as much
quality time with her as possible I
already know I'm gonna be a total mess
when she leaves so we got a massage done
today they gave us Mini Chocolate and it
kind of looks like worming chocolates
but I swear I don't have worms then we
went to have some lunch and look I want
to teach you something for when you eat
oysters so when you're done you actually
need to put the shell upside down to let
the waiter know that you're finished are
you guys allergic to anything tisha's
allergic to eggs so I get to eat all her
legs legs eggs it's the best thing ever
also I need to get something off my
chest everyone I've run into says
something about this bag about how cute
it is and how much they want it and I
get so awkward because this bag is
literally fake I bought it from Bali
