rating things from an Australian
Supermarket that doesn't make much sense
to me starting off strong with a chicken
and ham spread now how do I word this um
I did not like it it was very intense
you have to have an acquired taste for
this bad boy because I'm giving this a 4
out of ten no three out of ten now on to
ham cheese and hundreds and thousands
cookie I thought you were meant to add
these together and eat it as like one
snack do not do that eat it separately
because I did this I'm gonna give this a
two out of ten I swear this is just a
marketing thing because it did not taste
like the meatballs although it did taste
really yummy these chips were good um
don't eat them on a date though because
my breath afterwards was not nice seven
out of ten now if you're actually a fan
of cheekies I'm sus on you these are
actually rank like a chocolate Lolly
like not a fan three out of ten okay
look I threw this one in here this does
make sense it's akin to surprise I love
them but I wanted to see what the toys
are like these days so I opened it up
and I put it together and look at it it
squirts water it was really hard to get
the water out of him but it was cute 10
out of 10. Vegemite and cheese spread
look this wasn't too bad but I would
prefer veggie my
