modeling in Japan versus Europe or
America what's the difference you might
know me as the Swedish guy who run of
its Japanese but my real job is actually
fashion modeling and I did so for many
years in Europe and uh before my
modeling agency in Japan brought me here
there are so many differences between
modeling in Japan versus in Europe or
the US in Japan for example you have a
manager who picks you up and drives you
to all of your tests so you're basically
just gotta show up in good condition and
the manager does the talking for you
something I was really surprised about
when I first started coming to Japan
working was that I several times a month
was casted as a groom getting married
for a living which felt weird in the
beginning because my parents back home
in Sweden were never married in the
first place on these wedding shoots we
basically simulate a full-on wedding
with up to 50 people on set at the same
time including guests musicians a priest
and our parents Japanese people spend on
average 22 000 on their weddings I just
made a vlog about one day as a wedding
model in Japan these jobs are a lot of
fun so please check it out
