I am not a great teacher I can do a lot
of things and I can show you how I do
them but if you want me to teach you I'm
going to use too many words it's going
to get confusing but recently my kid
asked me to teach her how to crochet and
I said sure cuz even though I'm not a
great teacher I still try so I got our
supplies I explained it to her I showed
her how we did hand over him we took it
slow but within 15 minutes she had lost
interest she was done but then yesterday
she asks if I'll teacher had a crochet
again and I said sure but last time you
didn't seem interested anymore when you
weren't immediately good at it she said
it wasn't that she wasn't interested
it's that she was getting frustrated by
tried to help it felt like I was doing
it for her so she got bored she laughed
and said I don't really like help I like
to do things myself I said I know but
you have to learn how to do something
and accept help to be able to do it by
yourself and she agreed so we came up
with a plan for next time where we'll
talk about more than crocheting while
we're trying to crochet to make sure we
stay on the same page and minimize
frustration CU while teaching isn't a
strength of Mind communication is and if
I want to become a better teacher which
I do then leaning into the things I know
I'm good at is only going to help me
