I'm going to be showing you the most
realistic Day Ever So my school starts
at 5 30 I woke up at 5 and I said just
five more minutes and you guessed it I
slept for two more hours I woke up happy
and that was very alarming why would
Lala be happy at 505 am so I went to
check my phone and you guessed it the
time was I'm late to school
this is me rethinking if I should go
back to sleep or school that's cool I
mean this is me brushing my teeth and
sleeping I wanted to wear these block
pants but they were too dirty but I
literally could care less so I wore them
went to the sink and washed it with my
hand but uh it's gone magic now I'm
deciding which shirt I should wear I
literally like tried 20 shirts on and in
the end I went back to the first one
that I tried of course now we have to
drive 40 minutes to get to my school
wheel drive now a 20-minute walk to my
class
we're canceled today I got what for no
reason
