well it's official I just bought a condo
good morning I started renting this
condo two years ago moving in days just
before Christmas I spent my first
Christmas like Kevin McAllister no
decorations no family and saying that
time to find myself a Christmas tree
thanks to Facebook Marketplace I found
one for a pretty good price it's time to
change the fall table decorations got
some Garland I'm gonna put on this year
a quick clean up before I have to tear
down my outdoor patio really wish I did
this before it snowed lots of funny
things on this patio in the summer the
lake still hasn't froze time to hop on
zwift and get a bike ride in always
feels good to move the body I'm making a
spinach smoothie I have to do some
editing don't already know I went to
school for Film Production dinner
tonight is leftover steak asparagus
peppers and couscous that's around
