now I'm not gonna point fingers but some
of you missed the entire point I was not
about to bleach her hair because she
said the prettiest girl in her class's
hair was black because then I felt like
that would be me unfortunately like yeah
you're right like you aren't the
prettiest girl well that is completely
fine she does not have to be anybody
else to be beautiful she like is
stunning not to mention she's already
moved on to wanting some rose gold now
she said this may be the look for the
wedding so we may do a second round
depending on how long it lasts because
we kept the semi-permanent dye in her
hair for only about 15 minutes we began
the rinsing process and I gave her a
nice little scalp massage because those
are her favorite combed her hair and
this is how it turned out
