I got my hair done at 8am and then I
drove down to Forum Shops which is
inside Caesar's Palace I had to meet our
team down there because we're doing a
special video shoot today I got there
first so I went inside and it looks like
a complete disaster in there but we
managed to shoot a video somehow and
we're announcing our opening date
tomorrow Tuesdays are usually always an
office day but I wanted to drink first
so I stopped by Cafe Lola in Summerlin I
was just going to order my drink and
head to the office but they needed some
help so I jumped in the back I helped on
the bar for a little bit and made a
bunch of fun cocktails which I love
making and then a customer asked for a
caramel latte but I asked them if they
wanted to try our new summer drink
coming out which is the dulce de leche
it is a caramel latte but it's made with
Mexican caramel and cinnamon and it's
delicious another customer ordered this
and it looked so good it was our soup
and sammy with avocado in it after they
got caught up I headed over to the
office and I forgot my latte after the
office I picked up sofa from school and
now it's gymnastics time
