first day of University after three
months of holiday it was kind of hard to
wake up today but I got ready and did my
makeup my eyeliner is not eyelining
today I think I put
them the reason why I wanted to film a
mini Vlog instead of a full YouTube
video is because I only have one class a
day and I can't even film in that one
don't worry I'll Vlog when classes start
I had breakfast reply to your comments
and headed out the door I have Cam lab
today and for chemistry lab sessions we
need to read the laboratory notes that
they give us so we aren't clueless when
doing experiments so here I was printing
it out and screwing through it's finally
coffee time
nothing is better than Melbourne coffee
then I met rain for lunch and of course
she gets all my best angles
you've seen her in my Vlogs before and
finally it's class time here I am
looking 10 times cooler in a lab coat
you're seeing illegal footage right here
okay I'm not allowed to film inside I
make new friends hilarious and that is
my
