there are seven animals that can only be
found in Australia and we're seeing them
all today first up we have the drop bear
then we have the wombat God chassis
devil these guys remind me of stuffies
they're so cute everyone thinks they're
psycho but they're adorable okay then we
have some mini kangaroos a quokka oh and
there's an Echidna there and there was a
platypus in here somewhere then I had to
bring my child to the Capybaras you
would think at 20 years old she would be
more mature but no she's acting like a
little kid so excited to see these
Capybaras and look there's an Australian
icon with the capybara it's a bin
chicken we love these birds I think some
Asians have tried to eat these things
because apparently they taste like
chicken but not me I swear then we said
bye and we got ready for our private
cruise on this water taxi this is so
random but we had the entire boat to
ourselves because it was raining and
luckily I had some ponchos left over
from Disneyland and then all of a sudden
thousands of drones fly up in the air
it's like something from the future and
they start forming pictures in the sky
the first one is a whale are you kidding
me there's some planets a shooting star
and then the world and you can see
Australia
