the night before every booking I make
sure that my kit is clean sanitized and
tidy for the next day it wasn't a crazy
early morning like they usually are I
only had to wake up at 4am left the home
by 4 30 and got there by five o'clock
and I did my bride some hair and makeup
while I waited for the photographers to
take pictures discovered this cute
little chair that looked very
uncomfortable but actually was pretty
comfortable then we took some pictures
on the balcony before the dupatta went
on and that was the end of that booking
when I got home my husband made me a
toast and some jar I took a little nap
and then my husband actually drove me to
my next booking I am seriously so
blessed you guys now it was time to take
the kit up the stairs I looked back at
my kit and the stairs and if you're an
mua you know the struggle at least I got
a big nice room to work with I got the
mom's sister and the bride ready and
they all looked so so beautiful at the
end of the booking the bride's mom gave
me some yummy butter chicken and this
beautiful thank you card
