we all know by now I am the fashionista
who bought a very first house in the
outback let's go we started today off by
going to the Antique store you guys know
I love finding cheap stuff and making it
look my style and my vibe I found these
two I don't what are they called I'm
gonna call it a pillar could be so wrong
anyway I also got a mirror I started by
sanding it painting it and then also
guys I wanted I wanted to show you the
real life of the Outback right I went
for a walk through my front yard look at
the bottom of my shoe yep that's after
one walk these are called cat heads with
cat heads at least once a day you get
poked by them in the bottom of your foot
you say owl you pull it out you go your
own way like it's it's bad but you know
it's not too bad anyway back to the
pillar um I sanded it and I put it next
to my fireplace and I gave it that like
shabby chic look and I kept the brown
one brown to match the hallway Vibe okay
guys I don't like giving too many of the
befores because people hate that I
painted the green Walls and the beams
but it is my style that is ginny sleepy
and here is the after I am super happy
and so much work has gone into this
obviously the details aren't done but
that is the gist of it
