I have brown skin I'm half Filipino and
I thought because of this I would never
have to worry about skin cancer well
today everything changed okay so this is
what happened I woke up so sick I know I
don't look it but I've got a whole heap
of makeup on and I had to go on live TV
did you guys see us the whole time I was
trying to be happy and healthy but
inside I was struggling but you know
what that actually turned out to be a
blessing in disguise so after the
interview I went home and Tisha took me
to the doctors so he basically tells me
I got a cold and it'll be gone in a few
days and then he's like but I'm a skin
doctor do you have any skin issues and
I'm like actually this Freckle on my eye
what the hell is it and oh yeah I did
that test as well anyways they did a
skin test and found a mole on my spine
that didn't look good so they're taking
it out tomorrow and I'm kind of scared
you guys but I'll keep you updated also
this is a money tree it's the easiest
plan to grow and if you plan outside
your house you'll attract good things to
you and then I fell asleep literally had
like a three hour nap and then I woke up
and guys Deja was doing her homework and
she was literally asking chat gbt for
all the answers but I had no energy to
help her
