currently 8 am and I have seven hours of
lecture today so I'm gonna bring you
along with me my bed is so comfortable I
don't want to leave
shower anime
and I mainly like the Starbucks one if
you follow these measurements it's so
good anyways if you're new here my name
is Liz and I'm a senior at Cornell
University right now my major is
information science which is literally
the coolest major ever so I first got
into Tech when I was in Middle School I
was randomly thrown in a class called
cyberpatriot which was basically this
cyber security competition but they had
a designated class for it even though I
didn't know what it was I decided I was
going to give it a shot and just see
what it was like it ended up being my
favorite class and I met some of my
bestest friends who I'm literally still
friends with now I just finished my hair
and makeup I'm gonna choose an outfit
now
okay here's the outfit we're going with
today I like the subtle elements of
green of course my camera because I
don't go anywhere without it in my
notion tote bag because it's my favorite
okay so I'm currently on my way to my
first class here's a little glimpse of
what campus is looking like after our
snow day my first class is called app
designer prototyping this is one of the
last classes I need to actually complete
my major and it's actually super
