Ginny called me up this morning and
she's like hey come to the city for
lunch I literally had 10 minutes to get
ready and I chucked on whatever like
that is why my outfit is so fat also my
freckles come out a little bit more in
the summer season anyway so I get to the
city engineer was like oh girl you miss
you missed the dress code memo we're
meant to be going out for this cute
little girl's day lunch and I look like
this and I've got a wrinkly shirt on but
it's all good normally Jenny and I don't
eat Italian food like we love it but we
it's not like our go-to and it was so
yummy today but we got so bloated
afterwards like our stomach like was
actually hurting maybe we're like gluten
intolerant nah Let's Pretend We're not I
literally think I'm so funny every time
the camera comes out and I do something
weird yeah let's not talk about it but
no it's actually such a good day we're
just the two girls in the city we went
to an art gallery why am I standing like
a dad we then made our separate ways and
I went back home for a little bit of
context I live over an hour away from
the city so I caught a train home and
then I got to the beach and I jumped in
with my clothes on because why not I'm
really procrastinating because I do have
to go back home and work so yeah that
was my day
