I planned my entire wedding in six weeks
do I highly recommend planning in this
short amount of time no buy here the
hacks the house one word balloons
balloons Over Flowers every single time
first of all they're cheaper and they
just fill up the room a lot better
second is neon signs because they add
just such an easy backdrop and if you
can't buy one rent one like we did
ladies and gentlemen LED candles get a
lot of them okay but this bouncy house
was like the biggest hit with all of the
kids at our wedding and We snuck in
there and got a few photos too okay your
Venue is key we went with this specific
venue because it already came with
chairs tables all of that but it was
pretty enough that we didn't have to
dress it up a ton and it came with the
cutest brides and yes I did order my
wedding cake from Target which was 20 it
did end up looking like a Valentine's
cake until my best friend fixed it so it
was all good and because I was planning
in such a short amount of time I forgot
my sparklers so this was our send-off
kind of lame but it was fine
