can you believe my first ever concert
was yoongi's concert so my mom spent so
much time thinking about this poster she
was brainstorming she was creating we
even went to Michael's to buy the
supplies for this poster I'm telling you
guys she literally put her Blood Sweat
and Tears into this like she literally
cut and glued everything because she
wanted it very handmade for yoongi sir
was also able to score some merch's
Hoodie was 110 can you believe that
that's crazy people are giving us like
free little monkey goodies and I was
like is this a normal concert thing
where people just give out free stuff I
got really hungry about these notches
and these two drinks not just itself was
like twenty dollars and the drink itself
for fifty dollars
and even gave us a potential trigger
one's energy was insane listen to this
[Applause]
I'm just gonna let you listen to his
performance I was literally screaming my
throat out
look at a smile I was so happy I
couldn't even believe I was here guys
like seriously tears were rolling and
then the posters were showcased and my
mom's was not showcased and she was
really sad guys like I'm not kidding she
was so selfish yeah it's just like
joking here but like my mom's seeing her
heart out like that she loved it
