my husband asked if he could get my
daughter Grace ready for school today
and that was literally the cutest
request ever so of course I said yes
he's already been the best girl dad ever
since he came into Grace's life at six
months but this is totally out of his
realm because we're normally ready by
the time he comes over but now that he
lives with us he wants to like be better
at it he did ask for my help and I told
him matching sets every single time like
they're the easiest most mindless outfit
ever next up was Hera and he was like
how do you do a ponytail and I was like
I don't know how to teach someone how to
do a pony then we just ended up going
with the bugs his face just watching and
being so patient with both of us we went
ahead and slapped a beanie on that hair
too it was a messy bun and beanie we're
being Devin's first time doing it like
he did so good
