come with us to the premere of the new
mang Girls movie so the dress code was
wear pink but I'm literally the only one
who missed the memo but it doesn't look
good on me anyway so many people are
really not happy about the new Ming
Girls movie but I feel like if I tell
you why then it would be a huge spoiler
it's not often movie trailers leave out
a huge part of I guess the theme of the
movie but this one did and so many
people hated the movie because of it so
we've seen the original and loved it and
we're one of the few people that
actually loved the Remake too but I kind
of feel like the first and second movie
have different audiences in mind for
this one big reason let me know if you
guys know what it is or if you want me
to spoil it and tell you why everyone
heading but we really loved it because
we really LED
