I never wanted to have Deja I met
Jonathan when teach was two years old
and I told him I didn't want to have any
more kids and if he wanted kids he
should find someone else then five years
into our relationship I thought to
myself tisha's gonna be 20 and I'll
still be young and she'll probably have
her own life and I won't have a many
friends so I changed my mind and three
weeks later I was pregnant with Deja and
look my plan worked I still have a mini
bestie and I'm flying to Sydney this
week for a little family holiday to see
Vivid we're staying at this fancy hotel
while we're here but Deja doesn't care
how fancy it is she still has her dogs
out and look we can see the opera house
and the Story Bridge from our room do
you unpack your suitcase when you go to
a hotel I never do but we're here for
five days well I am Deja and Jonathan
are only here for three days and I can't
wait to show you everything we're doing
one thing we plan on doing is eating at
a lot of nice places oh my God Deja
thought that was a marshmallow but it's
a napkin then Deja was teaching Jonathan
how to do a love heart it literally took
him like five minutes to learn how to do
double tap if you love our love heart
guys then we went to Vivid have you guys
been yet Deja loved watching the Opera
House change colors while we're at
dinner
