do you eat lamb I don't eat old sheep
but I love eating baby sheep it's so
delicious apparently Americans don't
like lamb and I find this really hard to
believe like why don't you guys like it
anyways Deja wanted to cook some lamb
tonight so I went out and got it and
we're only doing a small shop because
we're leaving for Perth soon Deja and I
are going shopping today for our
basically besties outfits we're thinking
we're going to wear pink at each show
but guys can I be honest with you I'm
starting to freak out like I'm gonna be
on stage in front of thousands of you
does anyone else have a fear of public
speaking like my two main fears are
flying and public speaking and I'm going
to be doing both of those over the next
two weeks and then I opened some
packages that I got from you guys I got
some cleansing products some new Crocs I
didn't know they had thongs and I got
some workout gear oh and I got some of
that new mascara from Fenty and look how
fancy this packaging is there's a little
mirror
and then Deja gave me a dinky to the
beach she wanted to watch the sunset
before we started cooking dinner anyways
we raced back home and we started
cooking our lamb chops we seasoned the
lamb and then you just put it on a hot
pan for like five to ten minutes and you
have the best
