a couple of weeks ago was my daughter's
first ever picture day but it was a big
fat mood killer because she hated how
the photos turned out fast forward to
present day is picture retake day so
welcome to her Glam chair with her Glam
team aka me yes she is baby speed like
last time we took a much more
conservative route but we're like no we
are putting in our colorful extension
and yes we're blinging her hair out
because that's what she wants we're
putting on a hint of makeup just for fun
she obviously does not need it but I
mean like have you seen her face she's
gorgeous either way um yeah The Vibes
during this whole thing were absolutely
Immaculate to see the joy in her eyes
and her smile as she's like getting
ready because she just loves this she
did ask if we could take pictures before
we went to school because we don't want
what happened last time now do we where
did that come from I don't know I
apologize so here we are again with a
similar setup of getting ready to take
some photos of her the post queen
strikes again like I did not teach her I
can't even take photos like this guys
I'm gonna go edit these photos and then
we'll be back for part two
