BBC I have few questions to ask you
which I have at hand here I will be
picking from here and if you can answer
these questions this should be that you
have record or evidence
BBC did anybody give you the evidence of
a picture or video clip of a rape or
oppression or attack or be maltreated
among all the people you interviewed no
a few days ago BBC released a three part
documentary exposing Prophet TB Joshua
on allegations of rape and a lot of
things occultism and a lot of other
things now according to the BBC this is
what they wrote at the end of the
documentary the BBC contacted the church
leadership with the allegations in this
film they replied that making unfounded
allegations against Prophet TB Joshua is
not a new occurrence
none of the allegations was ever
substantiated this was the reply that
the church me leadership gave to the BBC
now they said that they did not respond
to the details of the allegations now
this is not the first time that Prophet
Joshua has been accused of something or
has been exposed or something like that
as far back as 2001 there were articles
about Prophet Joshua and even in 200
bisa one of the women who spoke in um in
the documentary she tried to expose
Prophet TI Joshua when I posted the
video of the expose a lot of people in
the comment section were asking that why
did they wait for him to die then after
three years now that they are bringing
out this video well this is not the
first time that Prophet TB josua has
been accused of something like this it's
not the second time not the third time
now the church did not respond but then
his sons some of the people that he
trained they have come out with response
to BBC asking BBC certain questions and
throwing certain facts and figures at
BBC I have the food just for you I'm the
Headless you there headless
reactions now the first person to
respond was prophet IO Samuel now this
man if you look at his hairstyle in his
beard and you look at prophet
you know that yes like father like son
like you know that like father like son
now this man Prophet IO Samuel is the
head pastor of Shilo World Chapel in
Nigeria and he has made a video asking
BBC certain questions
BBC did anybody give you the evidence of
a picture or video clip of a rape or
operation or attack or being maltreated
among all the people you interviewed no
is any one of them still in synagogue
today no did they live synagogue more
than 10 15 years ago yes we are the
people that always stay with man of God
and the ones that stayed with him till
the end of his life on Earth unto Glory
they enjoyed life I want to ask you BBC
if these people were maltreated for
example close
that the last baby in the family of
prophet Chris the family of Tong husband
and wife that live with the entire
family in
synagogue they just left after the time
God took man of God unto Glory they were
still there the sister the elder sister
married the second man to Prophet TI
Joshua the second man called Rin all of
them went to London they have Ministries
if they were oppressed
why would the family be giving the
charity funds to be going around the
world to do charity and report back to
synagogue until Daddy went onto Glory
this family lived in synagogue if they
were being oppressed remember these are
British people that you can interview
you never interviewed the the parents
and the last baby was claiming that she
was being oppressed go and do researches
this lady was one of the ministers that
discipled and began to preach they were
being treated as royal family from
Britain Chris if the brother Chris
became a prophet and Prophet Tibi Joshua
is a fake man of God or evil how did CHR
become a known prophet in London till
today in UK verify I want you to also
verify who is bisa what is our mission
why this clip at the glory time that of
God is resting why this clip after 3
years why did no one report to
authorities of Nigeria or International
Security people like DSS or FBI or efcc
or police there was no record like that
BBC go to your archive where you not the
one that interview Prophet TI Joshua and
made the whole world to know about him
is on the news we have the record
why today people are now telling you the
wrong things guide your steps trace your
steps search for the truth I am not here
to defend Prophet TI Joshua as a perfect
man I am here to talk about the man of
Grace he works towards perversion but he
not perfect all the men of God in
Nigeria and Africa in the world today if
they can walk like him in charity in
love in humility in prayer life
isolation life in prayers silence
without responding to all these people
for
once devil will check out of this world
for us another person who has reacted to
the BBC expose of prophet Joshua is
white man Harry now this man is also you
know a son of prophet Joshua he is the
head of the Squan um thessalonica in
Greece That's The Synagogue Church of
all nations in thessalonica Greece
that's where he heads and he too has
made a video and in his video he's also
asking questions he is wondering say one
of the ladies they know her as Rachel
Holmes but in the video she she's going
by a different name saying that she she
was
lesbian I'm not here to accuse anybody
or to condemn any
anybody the Judgment Belongs to the Lord
Almighty on the last day everybody will
give his
account just to take little out of what
I
saw in the BBC
documentary the first person who
spoke was Rachel
Holmes
which her name now is Ry I don't know
maybe she changed her name we knew her
as a Rachel those days and the first
thing she started saying she said I'm a
gay I'm a
lesbian I stand for this I have always
been I never change I thought if I go
to schan I will change but I never
change that was the first things he
started by saying and some other people
who
spoke everybody came with their own
problems some was this some was that we
don't want to begin to mention the past
of of every
person because everybody has a past
before we come to know the truth of
Jesus
Christ and receive our
salvation but you can understand
people who failed to make it in life
people who failed to
succeed as true disciples as true
genuine Christians
are the ones who eventually got
frustrated gang up
together and come out with
this false
stories trying to tell the world why
they themselves failed in life he was
also asking that if all these people
were indeed being tortured and raped and
all that as they claimed that they were
why did they stayed there for 10 years
15 years and all that now if somebody is
doing something as bad as this to you
why won't you just walk away or go away
why are you there for 10 years 15 years
20 years but my question also
is if all these bad things were
happening to them how come one of them
stay there for 14 years another one stay
there for 17 years another one stay
there for 20 years another one stay
there for 15 years
how
come a person who is well with his
senses will not want to stay in a place
where they rap him who wants to stay
where they rap you you want to go you
want to run away you want to
escape so this is a pure lie he also
threw a person at one of the men a
prophet ago he was this man he was very
close to Prophet Joshua if you watch
Emmanuel TV you will see him on the show
every single day now they were asking
said if this man is claiming that
Prophet josua was fake does that mean
the Miracles that he the man Prophet the
things he was doing when he was with t
Joshua all the Miracles does that mean
they are also fake does that mean all
this why that Prophet Joshua is going
around from country to Country going for
Crusade and healing millions of people
was that also fake
or another one who
said The Miracles were
fake if the Miracles were fake what were
you doing in that Ministry for the past
20
years what were you doing when you
became yourself a junior Prophet I'm
talking about
ago he became a junior
prophet and he experienced himself the
power of God he stretched forth his hand
and many people got healed he God
delivered God blessed God used him the
power of God passed through him to heal
to save to bless was those Miracles also
fake the time God using were using him
was those Miracles were also
fake and if he says it was fake was all
the Miracles Prophet I josha went for
Crusades all over the world in the
presence of hundreds of thousands of
people and millions watching live were
those Miracles also
fake you can deceive one man you can
deceive two people you can deceive three
people with tricks but you cannot
deceive Millions you cannot deceive a
whole
stadium the testimonies of those who
were healed blessed delivered those
whose lives were changed are millions
all over the world and they still stand
he also said that when BBC released the
documentary fresh if you go to the
comment section you see a lot of people
trying to debank the allegation saying
that oh no Prophet Joshua is good I
really received healing I have already
received healing and all that but now if
you go there the BBC has deleted all
those good comments about Prophet C
Joshua and you will see only bad
comments these are his words another
thing that was very strange to me was
that when the BBC documentary came
out I read the comments all the comments
down they were positive speaking good
things people were coming out to write
testimonies that no I don't believe this
documentary this is not true I
personally receive a healing from
Prophet Joshua I personally receive a
blessing I receive Deliverance I receive
a prophecy my life changed since I went
to scan many people wrote
testimonies and I told told to one of
you I said to one of you don't be
surprised if within few days you will
see all the positive messages start
disappearing from the BBC comment
section and you will start seeing only
negative
[Music]
comments and the person said no it is
not possible it it will show it will
prove that they are doing something you
know because we all all of us we we read
the positive comments I dare you go and
read the comment sections on the BBC
Africa documentary now you will see a
lot of
negative
[Music]
comments maybe one positive the one that
they forgot most of them they remove
already and they ban those accounts they
ban them not to send more positive
comments we which really
exposes the hidden
agenda of BBC Africa there are a lot to
be said about these questions that they
are throwing at the BBC if you watch the
documentary part one part two part three
you will see that they showed a part
where the people were trying to escape
Prophet Joshua saying that he was um
trying to kill them
name the fames were light too he bought
the whole system
how do you stand up to a man who has got
a list of presidents in his pocket just
continue to watch Emmanuel he TV josua
preaches forgiveness he doesn't
forgive they shut at the back of
the he sent them to kill
me to kill
me everywhere I turn
to was like w this man had p had police
generals and all that coming to his
church so you that you are being abused
over there allegedly who are you going
to report to now these are some of the
things that were in the documentary I'll
suggest you watch the documentary part
one two and three after that you will
get all your answers but then these are
the questions that the sons of prophet
TI Joshua are throwing at BBC if you
have the answers let me know in the
comment section whether the BBC will
reply or not we are here for the
violence watch other videos on this
channel tell somebody about
headless
