[Music]
trotty Trivandrum has been working as an
engineer in stuttgart in southern
germany for six years now he's getting
married and going back to his home
country India to celebrate the wedding
together with his family in the southern
state of Kerala
I'm the first of my family to study
abroad and work abroad as well and I'm
first of my family to marry a woman from
outside Kerala it's not that normal in
India working in Europe and taking a
bride in faraway Kerala are big steps
for pettish
[Music]
when pratishta rived in germany he
shared an apartment in stuttgart his
former roommates are looking forward to
the wedding and to getting to know his
family to his wedding will probably
serve as best man and bridesmaid also
I've got to have a word of this father
because party has been trying to get his
permission to marry for two years now
and his father is just 2 or 3 years
younger than I am so as the elder one I
have to take the initiative and say how
it's going to be especially since we're
like foster parents to party she org
even taught party Sh how to cook German
food Spacely for instance I can't say
I've assimilated into German society in
just six years
all my life I've eaten Indian cuisine
and I can't change completely in just
six years other aspects of the German
lifestyle have been far more appealing
that's something that's really good here
in Germany a pleasant evening in this
part of Germany involves vegetarian
spaetzle and good friends party Sh fits
right in
yeah the people here would say it's
edible in his six years in Germany
Kurdish has gone all but native that is
except when it comes to such a
fundamental life event as a wedding that
has to happen in India his old friends
Georg and Hilde would have arrived from
Germany Pradesh helps them pick out
clothes appropriate to the big occasion
with his expert advice they go shopping
at the best department store in Harry
pot pratices hometown I wouldn't buy
anything else it suits you now it's
Georg Stern I'd rather try something in
this car I think it'll be expensive now
you look like a prince I don't look like
a friends just like a normal Indian ones
nice I'd like that one myself
I look like a sheikh great I'll take
this one I can't stop laughing
dressed like a genuine Indian Georg
style is a hit
they have a little time to enjoy the
Indian Ocean before the celebration
begins unlike Western custom the bridal
couple don't have to avoid meeting
before the wedding I'm allowed to see
her now I have permission amigo the
bride and her family are from northern
India this is my father and then comes
another surprise I can speak a little
German I learned it at the Goethe
Institute
[Music]
we've come out I come from Delhi that's
about 3,000 kilometers away right delis
in northern India and Kerala's in
southern India I'm very excited the
evening before the wedding the women
celebrate with lots of music and dance
[Music]
for Anu it's a marriage of love she met
her future husband Pratyush on the
internet he was in Stuttgart and she was
in Delhi she had to obtain her parent's
permission it took her two years to do
so neither set of parents will end up
seeing much of their children have to
live in Germany I like it there I've
seen the winter I was in Germany once in
January when it snowed and once in
summer and tomorrow I have no idea what
to expect
it's a southern Indian wedding the
city's convention centres been booked
for the celebration everybody's either
working on preparations or waiting for
it to happen
[Music]
Hildred uses the time to have a good
look around the kitchen
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
the cook proudly shows the guests
everything the crew have been cooking
around the clock for two days using
various blends of many spices I can't
imagine how prestige could eat German
food when he's used to this but he never
let on and it seemed strange to him in
fact he always ate everything he did say
again to practice a bit to be able to
handle German food I say so given our
meat and potatoes diet 500 guests are
expected they start trickling in at last
the celebrations can begin
[Music]
following long-established rituals the
bride and groom approached the Brahmin
the priest
[Music]
[Music]
a new who pays homage to her future
mother-in-law
her own mother takes leave of her and
practice takes her as his wife
[Music]
[Music]
some of the rituals are unknown to Anu
[Music]
but exchanging rings has a symbolic
meaning that everyone understands
[Music]
[Applause]
just as obligatory are the wedding
photos including the German friends who
traveled so far to be here
[Music]
as soon as the ceremony's over the
moment comes that everyone's been
waiting for it's time to chow down in
this region the wedding feast is made up
of 23 different small portions served on
banana leaves
the only ones who have to wait are the
bridal couple reams of photos are taken
Hilde would and Georg take a moment for
themselves we're kind of exhausted and
overwhelmed by all the variety
confronting us here we really don't
understand much in which we couldn't
even figure out what it was supposed to
be about the reception continues into
the evening for the close friends and
relatives
brought Tisha's father looks after the
German friends meanwhile the groom gives
his impression of how things went it was
stressful yes but it all went smoothly
though it was a bit much with all the
photographers they wore us out they
stayed here till around 5 o'clock
I changed saris three times today is my
fourth Pradesh's mother misses him
already my mother says that since I've
been away she doesn't look at the stars
in the sky anymore because they remind
her that I'm so far away she's very sad
that I'm in such a far off place
the celebration still has a long way to
go three days later it continues at the
bride's home in Delhi it wouldn't have
been easy to get married in Germany it's
all very different when you do it in
India
[Music]
[Applause]
poor bride and groom it was a
celebration that will stay with them
long after they've moved to Germany
[Music]
