the report The Breakfast Club well
surviving r.kelly that docu-series on
lifetime broke ratings records for a
lifetime in many different ways now it
got 1.9 million total viewers on January
3rd which by the way was my birthday
shout-out to everybody that wish me a
happy birthday
and that was lifetimes best performance
in more than two years in all key demos
they said there was over seven hundred
and forty three thousand total
interactions on social media which was
their largest social premiere for any
series or movie in network history now
there were a lot of people that were
interviewed on this docu-series it took
place over six different episodes I
watched all six episodes so let's get
into a little bit of what happened on
there now there are a lot of people that
saw what our Kelly was doing but didn't
do anything to step in Craig Williams
who worked with our Kelly also discusses
how our Kelly would meet these very
young girls I was traveling through High
Park at one time and I stopped at a
store and Rob was driving by and he was
on his way to Kenwood high school and I
heard a lot about Rob going to Kenwood
high school to to hang out and I always
wondered what the heck is he doing
hanging around the high school
left high school many years ago that's
all I could say on that one cuz I don't
know but I heard that you know he was
picking up a lot of a lot of kids from
the school that's so disgusting and
what's even more disgusting as everybody
else in that documentary that's seen
what was happening that knew what was
happening and did absolutely positively
nothing all you up mother effers are
disgusting now they also in this
documentary talks about how he would
target these young women he would go to
the mall he would go to the schools and
he would whoever made eye contact with
him I gave him a little smile those are
the people he would target even a
security would go over and give the girl
his number he would stay in contact and
a lot of people I saw on social media
we're blaming other people for our
Kelly's behavior but the thing is that
he was an adult he knew what he was
doing was wrong he was trying to cover
things up he was forging documents all
kinds of things were going on with him
and the people around him were yes
enabling him but you cannot blame these
young girls who were the victims and
even if they weren't young girls if you
watch the docu-series you can see they
had all kinds of specialists and
psychologists psychologists on there
discussing what our Kelly was doing
mentally to these young women very
abusive mentally and he was physically
abusive as well according to the women
who were interviewed in this docucenter
is one in particular seen that had a lot
of people talking on social media that
was heartbreaking was watching a mom who
was trying to save her daughter
Dominique from our Kelly's hotel my plan
is just to go into the hotel I know
she's here
god I leave me here and
take it away that came to a close
believe it
such an effing predator and I mean he
played he played on weakness he played
on the fact that these girls wanted to
be stars and you know what he was doing
he was our Kelly for a lot of these
young girls and there's all kinds of
studies that show how your brain
develops and how you make decisions as a
young girl he used with these young
girls he used his position he used his
fame to draw them and lure them in and
then he would slowly little by little do
certain things like all right call me
daddy in the bedroom then it was call me
daddy outside of the bedroom then it was
okay you have to ask permission to use
the bathroom
Nishan II and he would cut them off so
they couldn't even speak to each other
and nobody really understood what was
going on a lot of these girls he was
grooming from a very young age not not
to blame the victims of blame to parents
but what a parent's like that that's
that's the one thing I was kind of
confused like I have three kids three
girls I should say and there's no way I
could even halfway allow my 15 16 17
year old to go without talking to me for
months at a time I I just I just
couldn't Dominique's mom didn't even
know that her daughter was going over
our Kaylee's how she was going with her
friend and so she's thinking she's
hanging out with her girlfriend and in
reality she found out later on that her
daughter was at our Kelly's house that's
crazy
y'all call me crazy for watching my
daughter and putting monitors on my
daughter's phone and on her call like
y'all call me crazy but that no that's
the reason why I because there's
predators there's crazy people that will
take advantage of your kids and your
kids being just just child and just
children just have no clue and it is so
freaky we'll be talking about this all
throughout the morning but our Kelly is
saying that he did not watch the
lifetime show at all just like you said
he didn't watch the sex tape when he was
in court now he's saying that he's going
to sue everybody that actually is
involved and did interviews and all of
those things on the documentary so we'll
see what happens with that but that's
what his claim is that he's gonna sue
everyone and in the next hour and of
course you want you guys to weigh in on
what you thought about this as well now
in other news Letoya Luckett and Thomas
Walker congratulations to them they just
had their daughter so congratulations
impressed you Gianna is luck it's the
first child and Walker second and Kim
Kardashian and Kanye West according to
People magazine are expecting their
fourth child via surrogate so that's the
plan for them
they've been talking about this for
quite some time they already have
Chicago who's one Saint who's three and
North who's five and a half so once
again another baby congratulations to
them but we'll talk more about Kanye
West later on
I'm Angela Yee and that's your rumour
report
[Music]
