[Music]
the sounds the colors the joy of the
beatles making music unseen for more
than half a century ringo said that he
thought we had to just tell it like it
is
i think we are
the man entrusted to restore almost 60
hours of footage from the let it be
sessions in january 1969 the lord of the
rings director peter jackson what made
you want to dedicate
four years of your life to this project
well i i wouldn't have done if it was
the rolling stones or something
controversial sorry so a musical
documentary is not a huge appeal to me
but the beatles yeah i'm i'm all in 100
percent four years no problem no problem
i'm um i i've loved every second of it
speaking words do you want to do it once
more yes yes i mean we never get a
chance to do it again
the project happened almost by mistake
peter jackson was meeting with the
beatles company apple to discuss the
possibility of a virtual reality
exhibition
so cats and kittens what are we gonna do
but as a beatles obsessive he took his
chance to ask something he'd always
wanted to know what had happened to all
the outtakes from the 1970 beatles
documentary let it be
they said to me well yeah we've got it
all which was great as a fan i was
sitting there thinking yeah you've got
it all they were thinking about using it
for a documentary a standalone
documentary and um but they didn't have
anybody a filmmaker um attached so any
time in my life i've ever done this i
sort of put up my hand and i said well
if you're looking for somebody i'll i'll
just
please think think of me
just say whatever comes into your head
each time attracts me like a cliff until
you get the word peter jackson was
offered the job the same day his only
concern he'd always been told that the
making of the let it be album was a
gloomy time for the beatles but when he
sat down to watch the outtakes what
surprised him was just how much fun
everyone was having if the footage
showed a truly miserable band not
wanting to be
doing what they were doing i wouldn't
have made the movie that's not the movie
i would have ever wanted to make but i
was
amazed and and surprised to see the
footage showing a very different story
to what i'd believe for 40 years
but it's going to be such a comical
thing like in 50 years time
they broke up because yoko sat on an
empire
paul mccartney has said watching this
documentary has changed his perception
of the breakup of the beatles that's
quite a thing
you know when i talked to ringo or paul
about the memories of january 1969
and they and they and they they talk to
me i'm thinking well i think you're
remembering let it be the movie from may
1970 because you obviously saw it and i
think what you're remembering is let it
be where you were very unhappy in may
1970 you just were breaking up there was
arguments there was lawyers it was a
very obviously clearly a very stressful
miserable time for you guys to not
remembering that this was actually
perfectly happy they were in a band that
was intending to break up when this was
being shot and that's what you see on
screen now we're going to take the
beatles and i'll be quiet oh you enjoyed
in our conversation and the secret
nature of much of the filming allows a
unique insight into what it was really
like to be in the studio with the
beatles
[Music]
the cameraman would hit the button had
10 minutes of film they'd walk away and
have a cup of tea and so the beatles
would think oh that guy's not not
filming me the camera's just sitting
there later and so they'd feel they'd
loosen up and feel that they weren't
being filmed and they could they could
be honest with each other but it's when
they don't know they're being filmed
that you get such really amazing it's
amazing insight into the into the
individuals in this man what did you
learn about the beatles then from those
moments
i i mean i learned that they uh
they were talking about january 1969
they were unbelievably normal people
they were they were liverpool guys
there's a psychic connection between
them all that they don't
have to talk
to each other to know what what they're
thinking and what to do it's very it's
it's the strong depth of that friendship
really struck me
the best bit of us always has been and
always will be is when we're facts
against the world
all we've got is us
what do you think in the end there was
so much footage get back has been
divided into three parts and there is
one other trilogy that links peter
jackson to the beatles
one real curiosity in the 1960s the
beatles actually wanted to make a lord
of the rings movie directed by stanley
kubrick what do you know about that i've
been scraping together little pieces of
information i've been interrogating paul
about it when they went to india
rishikesh you know when they stayed in
india with about three months with the
maharishi in the beginning of 1968 john
paul and george each got one lord of the
rings book to read in india and um and
they got excited about it and and
ultimately uh
they couldn't get the rights from
tolkien because tolkien didn't like the
idea of a pop group doing his his story
paula's frodo and john as golem i
believe apparently yeah yeah apparently
how different your life might have been
if they had made that movie
when i spoke to paul about it he said
well i'm glad that we didn't do it
because we you've got to do yours and
you know
you know and i like your film but i you
know i don't know at some and i said to
him well it's a shame you didn't do it
because what would the soundtrack be
like that would have been 14 or 15
beatles songs that would have been
pretty incredible to listen to one two
three four
peter jackson thank you very much for
speaking to us you're very welcome thank
you
you
