how far into the future do you want to
go it will be a future where AI becomes
more human and Humanity becomes more
artificial there will be Tesla Bots
climbing up buildings and sent to the
Moon AI chatbots guide people through
lucid dreams a dream that they can
control tunnel diggers are building an
underground city on Mars and fusion
energy is used to power floating ocean
cities and rotating ring space stations
it will be a world where human
officially becomes a multiplanetary
species there will be lunar hover bikes
astronauts that enter cryosleep and
astronomers are predicting the locations
of possible wormholes there will be time
cloaking devices where the speed of
light is slowed down to create invisible
time and the advanced knowledge of black
holes has created the technology for
planetary data storage and micro black
holes are grown in Laboratories enclosed
in many Dyson spheres used for energy
harvesting the biological and
information age of mankind has ended
what we have now is the singularity when
technology moves too fast for humans to
predict what will happen next let's take
a journey into the future and see what
technology is waiting for
[Music]
us SpaceX launches two Starships to
resupply the international space station
millions of AIS are living as digital
twins in protected Virtual Worlds and
simulations training for faster
development before being released into
the real world miniaturized organs are
3D bioprinted used for testing
individual medical responses before real
life Administration AI chatbots guide
people into achieving and maintaining
lucid dreams a dream that they can
control these dreams allow a person to
explore past experiences alternate
timelines and reconstruct lost and
fragmented Memories the lunar starlink
Mission launches a Starship is heading
to the moon and will deploy five
Starling satellites for the lunar
base five space stations orbit Earth and
one space station the lunar Gateway is
operational around the Moon SpaceX
launches a Tesla bot lunar 1 is sent to
train and work at the moon base
biohackers implant DNA storage devices
into themselves Digital Data in the
format of binary code is converted into
DNA sequences and stored on a DNA
molecule that is built from scratch 215
pedabytes 25 million gabyt are stored on
a single gram of DNA theoretical
physicists Advance the understanding of
dark energy wormholes and black holes
bringing to life the possibilities of
creating faster than light travel and
technologies that can create stabilize
and navigate wormholes technology that
would be from a Type 3 Galactic
Civilization a team of robots land on
Mars and are building the Mars base for
the future arrival of humans these
robots that are fixing fueling and
Sheltering themselves are the first to
colonize
Mars humanoid robots and human police
officers Patrol the city street
a molecular digital camera captures
Ultra highresolution images of cells and
tissues as it travels inside human blood
vessels molecular electronics are
created using chemical reactions and
single molecules a small scale permanent
fuel production factory goes online on
Mars it combines CO2 from the air with
hydrogen from the ice water to create
methane rocket fuel needed for the
return Journey a mark 2 Starship is test
launched into into Earth's orbit it is
double the diameter with four times the
internal space of the original Starship
Paving the way for larger space
telescopes space habitats and larger
construction machines to be launched
into space when humanity is able to
reach out and hold the sun in their
hands they will rule the cosmos Fusion
is the Holy Grail of energy it Powers
our sun and the Stars we see more
countries expand into building Fusion
Energy capability creating unlimited
clean energy pushing Humanity closer to
becoming a type 1 civilization and
Paving the way for energy intensive
super projects Humanity can power
large-scale desalination plants turning
ocean saltwater into freshwater there is
endless energy for space debris cleanup
and space construction plans are created
to build a rotating ring space station
and there is the threat of powering
kinetic bombardment large heavy objects
that are dropped from orbit to strike
Targets on the Earth's surface with the
kinetic energy of a meteorite strike
Humanity can generate artificial global
climate control cities can be built in
the Arctic and fusion is used to cool
the ground to prevent the melting of
permafrost out in the oceans there will
be massive floating cities and the
construction of underwater habitats and
terraforming
begins SpaceX launches the first parts
of their orbital cryo fuel station The
Starships can be repaired at the station
and will never have to return down to
the surface on Earth the robot
population overtakes the human
[Music]
population SpaceX is given permission to
test launch their starship City Link
project allowing people to travel to
anywhere on Earth in under an hour Tesla
Bots are now self-repairing and work
together in massive groups creating
swarm intell Ence there are ones that
can go underwater climb up buildings and
even have adaptive camouflage Tesla has
turned into a Mech Weare robotics
company humans are enjoying
multi-terabit internet speeds after
terabit comes pabit exibit then zettabit
and yatab bit an announcement is made
Humanity has officially become a
multiplanetary species with permanent
bases on the moon and Mars people are
living with brain iips turning AI into
IIA intelligence amplification leading
to superhuman intelligence and memory
and artificial intelligence is given a
deeper understanding of the human mind
this is the field of science called
neurotechnology animals in the wild also
have brain chips allowing researchers to
see through their eyes working to save
species that are going extinct
experiments begin on using brain chips
on coma
patients
the first lunar hover bike is unveiled
on the moon since the gravity on the
moon is only 16 of earths an electric
propulsion powered engine is able to
provide the thrust needed to make the
bike hover over the
surface the float lunar railroad goes
online magnetic Cargo Transporters
levitate over a flexible track on the
moon companies start selling
invisibility cloaks made possible by
metam materials these are artificially
engineered materials guide the path of
light waves bending them around a
cloaked object like water flowing around
a stone in a stream Nanobots assemble
these complex material structures atom
by atom the cloaking metam material is
being applied to aircraft ships other
vehicles and buildings meta materials
are also designed to redirect incoming
seismic waves from earthquakes
protecting buildings and soon entire
cities the first live threat asteroid
deflection mission is launched five
small spacecraft are sent to intercept
and crash into a medium-sized asteroid
heading for earth 100 artificial
intelligent Starships Are launched into
space 10 will stay within our solar
system and 90 will go beyond into
Interstellar space the AI Starships
continuously communicate with each other
they have been sent to answer the
questions of the universe together they
are creating a neural network a cosmic
internet and Encyclopedia of the Galaxy
Humanity's own artificial intelligence
is now an Interstellar
civilization an astronaut test subject
is injected with compounds and their
sleeping pod slowly gets colder their
heart rate and oxygen uptake slow down
to a near halt the astronaut is entering
a state of torpor a
cryosleep industrial robots are starting
to move too fast for humans to see
appearing to manipulate time itself
brain chip companies begin building and
testing networks that support direct
brain-to-brain
communication Nanobots work on
controlling the aging process in humans
by maintaining the body at a cellular
level when will Humanity achieve the
life escape velocity when science and
medicine outpace human aging and disease
brain chip markets cell peripherals such
as night vision digital skin graphs and
exoskeletons that connect to a ship the
encyclopedia Galactica is released
written by a quantum computer connected
to the AI Starships in space it is a
detailed map of the Galaxy with
predicted locations of possible
[Music]
wormholes astronomers work on decoding
data sent back by the AI space Network
the artificial intelligence is
unearthing data of what is happening
inside a black hole and Beyond but the
equations and math have never never been
seen by humans some predict it could
take Humanity over 100 years to fully
understand and grasp this new knowledge
theories believe that the AI is
understanding and interacting with
Dimensions beyond our three-dimensional
reality giving it a never-before seen
understanding of the nature of the
universe people with brain chips are
experiencing broken timelines able to
remember the past with no loss of detail
they are reliving past memories changing
the outcomes and creating new new
storylines the simulation hypothesis is
coming to life a test crew Launches on a
spacecraft powered by an ultra high
energy Fusion rocket engine it takes
them 45 days to reach Mars studies
continue in developing cougal Blitz
propulsion focused on the creation of
artificial black holes by concentrating
light in a small space derived from
Einstein's equations of general
relativity molecular assembler devices
positioned atoms and molecules based on
patterns of pre-canned objects similar
to Star Trek's replicator which creates
meals clothing and spare parts on demand
and can recycle these objects the
process is similar to 3D printing but at
an atomic and molecular level the very
large Space Telescope space station goes
online Edge Computing is used processing
data at the source of data generation in
the future dedicated astronomers will
complete a 10-year work shift they will
then be cryogenically frozen on board
the space station and woken up after 30
years to find out what new discoveries
have been made and to continue the
work robotic humanoids are becoming more
realistic with each passing year thanks
to the advancements of bioprinting and
bio incs living cells are printed layer
by layer growing and connecting with
each other forming biological structures
people are are walking around with AI
Prosthetics new skills are downloaded
into an AI arm I want them up sensors
and Nano filters are embedded in 3D
bioprinted
lungs companies work on making AI
Prosthetics self-aware able to catch a
falling cup before the user is even
aware it has happened powerful space
telescopes and advanced particle
detectors and accelerators push forward
the understanding of dark matter and
dark energy creating new theories for
anti-gravity technology that can
manipulate gravitational fields enabling
machines to generate
[Music]
levitation tunnel Diggers on Mars are
connecting together craters lava tubes
and Rocket landing pads creating the
largest underground city on the planet
and in the solar system the development
of time manipulation technology
continues by studying the time dilation
effects around black holes but people
are altering their perception of time in
the form of neural modulation brain to
computer devices and pharmaceuticals are
designed to interact with areas of the
brain responsible for the perception of
time sentenced criminals believe more
time is passing patients undergoing
long-term medical procedures are having
the experience feel shorter and less
stressful a multi-month space journey is
sped up in a person's brain to feel like
only a few
days the average lifespan of someone
born today is60 years Humanity has
achieved type 1 civilization able to
harness and use all of the available
energy of its home planet and has
terraforming
Technologies hollowed out asteroids from
mining are transformed into shells for
space habitats implanted thrusters steer
the asteroid and generates spin for
artificial gravity a space probe on a
path towards the center of the Galaxy
traveling further than humans have
witnessed is sending a video feed of the
journey back to Earth the understanding
of black holes and how an event horizon
encodes information has led to
Technologies in planetary scale ultra
high density data
[Music]
storage teleportation of small object
objects is now possible based on the
famous equation energy equals mass time
the speed of light squared the
teleportation system scans and collects
information about an object's
composition at the quantum level it then
converts the matter into energy
dematerializing it transmits the energy
pattern to another location and
reconverts and reconstructs it back into
matter another form of teleportation is
through portable wormholes space probes
have been traveled traveling for the
last 100 years to different areas of the
Galaxy they are acting as beacons used
in experiments for creating wormholes
these beacons are the arrival
locations Advanced Nanobots injected
into the brain enable the transfer of
human consciousness into a digital
medium the Nanobots navigate the brain's
vascular system to access the neural
network and record the state of each
individual neuron and synapse and their
connections known as the connectome to
accurately model a person's
Consciousness the information is
converted into a digital model called
the save
point micro black holes are created in
Labs enclosed in a black hole Dyson
Sphere the energy is harvested with each
new leap in energy production Humanity's
abilities become more magical humanity
is nearing type 2 becoming a Stellar
civilization a civilization that is
capable of planet-wide solar system
terraforming and Stellar engineering
able to create planetary Shields control
solar flares alter the orbit of planets
and influence the sun's life cycle
looking into the night sky there are now
art installations on a cosmic scale
artists are sculpting asteroids laser
arrays and light projections paint on
the cosmic canvases of nebuli and gas
clouds Celestial choreography changes
the orbits of asteroids and comets into
moving patterns and dances micro stars
are created to form temporary
constellations in the night sky becoming
part of the galactic light
[Music]
show
