[Applause]
[Applause]
in the autumn of 2014 Hong Kong became
the site of pro-democracy demonstrations
after the Chinese government announced
plans for electing the city's next chief
executive was the people of Hong Kong
would be able to vote candidates would
be vetted by an election committee and
would have to love the country and love
Hong Kong the refusal to allow open
nominations fell short of the promised
one-person one-vote elections and people
took to the streets in the fight for
what they called true democracy
pro-democracy supporters the existing
chief executive CY Leung has no popular
support we'd call him 689 because he has
only got 689 throws and he's there to
rule Hong Kong and we want him to step
down and then we want a true democracy
without candidates pre-selected by
Beijing that's our long-term go
we cherish democracy but it's Goldman
warming these people really said about
the city is that some people they just
don't have the courage to fight back
they don't have the courage to stand on
defeat but that's not everyone in Hong
Kong some of us still fight another
Center of protest was one got in the
Kowloon Peninsula which was seen by many
as more volatile than the Admiralty
district in terms of Cantonese we
thought it warm Goff and Wang means a
very lively vibrant very good in
business kind of area Golf is a corner
so it means it's a very vibrant corner
here
[Applause]
protesters used the singing of happy
birthday to upset his attempts to
clearly hear you
[Applause]
they really shouldn't have reopened the
road
because there was just more congestion
they were sending ambulances through
when they knew there was a protest going
on service is going to be the lathe
they're just going to be some physics
against the protesters again
just quick with the point
[Applause]
after almost three weeks into this
movement I can tell the police very high
and mentally they are being courted so
much as temple sprayed he's moved in
using pepper spray and buttons to clear
protesters from the corner of Mayfield
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
from an evening when protesters have
regrouped and taking control of large
sections of one but the leaders saw hope
for homecoming I want to say Hong Kong
is full of tales right now because the
government has destroyed the faith the
relationship between definitely people
and I just want to say to a hometown
people
Shia and hold that word because we know
that hope is coming right now the Sun is
rising and I want to tell those people
that
oversee keep reinforcing Hong Kong we
need your help
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
[Applause]
