[Music]
it's getting closer to the road and it's
getting closer to our homes
and slowly being destroyed by this cause
of climate change Max te lives in kirbas
a South Pacific nation whose very
existence is under threat rising sea
levels mean the entire country could
soon become
uninhabitable we're not going to run
from the problems we're going to face it
there are countries in the world who
have islands and they've built their
Islands because they have the two things
they have the technology and they have
the
funds the 120,000 residents of Kira buus
want to stay here and protect themselves
as best as they can but how long can
that
[Music]
last when we were kids the high tide
usually stops maybe from
here here it stops here and now then as
we
are grow growing up the high tide just
moved
moved and now it's hitting the the land
it's hitting the edge and it's
getting it's corrupting everything as
you can
see trees are falling down
not enough sand to hold them and it's
getting close to the road and I think
this not um it's just the beginning
maybe it will keep on going yeah it was
not always like
that it's getting closer to our homes
and it's a big deal for us slowly being
destroyed by this course of climate
change kabas is made up of 33 small
Islands spread across the Pacific in
some areas the ground is 3 m above the
water but almost everywhere else it's
only 1 M rising sea levels are causing
land to disappear the number of storms
is increasing and drinking water is
becoming salty Max's grandfather kirana
has been living here since he was a
child scientists started noting a rapid
rise in sea levels in the
1990s if the water continues to rise it
will erode our land the sea is drawing
closer and closer and will make our
lives unpleasant don't you think what
should we
do maybe this is climate change but what
can we do about it nothing we can't do
anything and we urgently need
help not everyone in kiras thinks the
situation is hopeless Peli alofa is a
climate activist and founder of kiraan a
local climate Protection Organization
she and other campaigners bought this
plot of land when it was completely
flooded together they work to build a
wall and drain the land they want to
show others that they are a resilient
nation and they don't want to
leave this is our resilient Village
we're always
underwat when it's high tight we will
not here water will be right in the main
road residents are braving the encroach
in Sea waterer they're teaching others
how to grow food in constantly salinized
soil pel's nephew Ralph spring is the
gardener here and he knows how
cultivation can work in these
conditions a growing food um uh on
raised beds over the ground if you if
your place is salt salt water in Ed and
um we also make our own soil and that's
a skill that every household should
should uh should know to plant their own
food to be healthy we collect a lot of
our Browns these are chips made from uh
all sorts of we have some leaves inside
that are brown now some some as you can
see some of the sticks from brushes and
all this one will stay at the bottom
because we know this will take time to
decompose and then we'll put good soil
on top that's what we'll use for
planting his services are a vital
contribution in a country where an
increasing number of crops are dying
because of the salt water but Peli and
her colleague Maris Peter know that this
won't fix everything they need more
resources you know kilas our government
wanted to raise Islands here and maybe
we we do not have the means to do that
but there are countries in the world who
have islands and they've built their
Islands because they have the two things
they have the technology and they have
the funds they have money those are the
two things to help us to stop the
problem that we're facing we're not
going to run from the problems we're
going to face it but we do not have
those two
things it's not yet clear exactly how
the main island of teraa will be
elevated the problem is that the island
is densely populated residential
buildings government buildings and
hospitals would need to be demolished
before the island could be raised up and
then rebuilt another possibility is
filling in a kind of replacement Island
the government has remained tight lipped
on these costly ideas and so far nobody
has responded to our requests for an
interview China is one possible donor
because it works closely with kirbas but
the West fears new Chinese military
bases in the Pacific as yet there's no
information on the kirbas government's
plan in this area CLA and tangaroa and
Tera say the same thing they live with
their 10-year-old daughter in a small
house on teraa the main island of kabas
they say information about climate
change is only reaching the other
Islands very slowly despite the visible
changes so because the the term climate
change for our people it's really a new
words but they they can aware they are
aware of the changes that occur in their
Island so by answering that I think uh
it's definitely confusing but our people
are facing the the the severe impact and
yeah I think we experience it in in so
many ways the water already plish of
course we have a a very narrow Island
but why now you know people used to have
good water but why now that we we have a
a salty water right now water is the
biggest problem rising sea level are
pushing salt water further in land
making groundwater unusable importing
bottle drinking water is too expensive
and rain water is the only option for
many people tangaroa says you can no
longer distinguish between the rainy and
dry seasons sometimes it rains all the
time sometimes not for years making the
water supply inconsistent uh because
this one is full yeah and I have to
collect uh extra
water uh that we can use for
for our
needs because we drink green
water Claire and tangaroa also have a
well in their Garden their water isn't
salty because they live in the middle of
the island but that also means they have
a lot of responsibility not only do they
drink from the well their neighbors also
come here to get water that's why
tangaroa cleans it once a month and the
neighbors help
out
just to make sure that our our water
inside this this one is clean every
every day yeah yeah you know when we
start building a house we don't have a
we don't have a water tank we don't have
rain water we use this this well to
drink
water we used to drink this
water and we really need to take care of
this W this
water that's in case no no rain no
rain this is our water yeah this is our
drinking
[Music]
water kirbas is full of solidarity
tangaroa is on his way to see his friend
Tabo araa OA who lives right by the Sea
like the other Coastal residents he's
built a wall in front of his house for
protection it has been standing for 40
years and has made Seaside living
possible on the overcrowded Island but
that's gradually changing when they
built their the wall that time yeah they
don't have a problem with the the sea
the the sea and by that time things
happen to the SE War they start uh the
war the W start uh uh broken during the
the king's
ties I get scared when the king ties
come
especially when it's windy my wall is
always on the verge of
breaking the next morning they survey
the damage from the night before it
wasn't as bad as Tabo had feared but he
still has to repair his wall a stone has
come loose it's only a small repair
needed today but it has to be done
quickly if I don't fix this now the next
flood this afternoon will cause even
more damage stones will break loose and
the land beneath it will just get washed
away it can still be saved however
researchers predict that the rate at
which sea levels are rising will only
accelerate more conservative
calculations predict a rise of 1.1 M
compared to today should that occur
kassa's fate would be uncertain but
judging by the impact that the climate
crisis is already having on this small
country it's reasonable to assume that
land will continue to shrink in the
future and that drinking water will
become even more scarce without
International Aid residents could become
climate refugees if our islands is
disappear uh from this Earth then um we
we will not we will be nothing because
what is important for me is my culture
my
language my my people so I request to
the world that they will be they need to
sacrifice and have compassion on the
lowly islands like talu Marshall Island
mivs and and kipus who already affected
by the climate change
impact the residents are committed but
they need developed countries to invest
money and resources to save kirbas
there's even a song hear about climate
change every child knows the words just
like they know what climate change means
for kirbas tangar roa's niece Cindy
bonato sings it in the
choir
myself searching for my refuge as the
world is getting worse day and
night my people in my future my country
on my
own stand firm and staying strong Until
the End of
Time climate change is growing strong
the rising wave will kill a soul and we
cry yeah we cry to the Lord to help me
through
