with all the tech and cool video gear
out these days it's easy to get bogged
down in the amount of stuff there is to
buy as a filmmaker when you're just
starting out you might think you have to
get the latest drone plus a professional
gimbal and a giant matte box with every
missed and anamorphic filter there is
before you can shoot anything luckily
this is mostly just marketing and while
these tools might help you build up your
production value down the line when
you're looking at making your first few
projects you can get away with a pretty
simple setup in this video i'm going to
get into the five truly essential things
that you need to get started with your
documentary project and some
recommendations on what i might pick if
i was starting out again
[Music]
hey guys welcome back and if you're new
here my name is luke forsyth documentary
cinematographer and filmmaker and on
this channel i teach the skills i've
learned over 10 years working as a
documentary filmmaker and photographer
okay so you've decided you want to make
a documentary or a short film and after
a few dozen youtube videos you're
feeling overwhelmed with all the stuff
you're supposed to have when i was first
transitioning from professional
photography into documentary production
i felt exactly the same way it seemed
like unless i spent an obscene amount of
money i wouldn't be able to shoot
anything but the reality is that is not
true sure filmmaking is always going to
be an expensive thing to get into
compared to i don't know soccer or
drawing but you can get by in the
beginning with much less than the
internet might lead you to believe in
fact for the first piece of video i ever
shot i only had three of these five
items and it was still published in al
jazeera which is a pretty big outlet so
what are the five essentials and what
would i pick if it were me the first one
is pretty obvious you need a camera i'm
gonna be annoying here and cheat this a
little by saying you need a camera and
whatever zoom lens comes with it which i
know is technically two items but since
they're usually sold as a package deal
i'm going to take some liberties on this
one i'm also going to count a battery or
two and a memory card as included in
this because without them you can't make
the camera work feel free to vent at me
in the comments below for documentaries
especially when you're starting out i
personally think that zooms are more
versatile than primes and even though
some projects might get away with only
using primes and look amazing i'd say
this is the exception rather than the
rule especially if you only have one
camera and you're filming moments that
can't be repeated again having the
ability to go from wide to detail shots
without changing lenses is huge with one
mid-range zoom lens something like a
24-105 or even an 18-55 you can cover
pretty much any normal scene from inside
a cramped car to a wide open landscape
as you advance in your career you might
decide to lean more towards primes for
stylistic reasons and i definitely
respect that but if i was shooting my
first few assignments and didn't have
that kind of confidence i would
absolutely want to zoom the good news is
that camera technology has come so far
that it's really hard to find a bad one
these days what you choose depends on
your budget obviously and what works for
me might not be realistic for you i
personally shoot on sony cameras with an
fx9 and an fx3 and i love that
combination but those are pretty
expensive cameras and it took me 10
years to work up to them if you can
afford it then something like an fx3 or
an a7s3 or even an fx6 if you can swing
it would be on the higher end of things
but you totally don't need to buy five
thousand dollar cameras and please don't
think that these are the only things
that will work when i started out i was
on a crazy tight budget and my policy
with cameras was always to buy whatever
the old model was used so now that the
xt4 is out something like a fuji xt3 or
now that the sony a74 is out look for a
used a7 iii if those are too expensive
take a look at older dslrs on facebook
marketplace and find one that works for
your budget just make sure it has a
microphone jack and shoots at least hd
video there are probably hundreds of
options that will work and unless
someone is paying you to deliver top
quality then don't worry so much if you
don't have the newest and best stuff and
if someone is paying you for that then
you should have a better budget anyways
the moral of the story is just get
something that doesn't break the bank
and start using it because not shooting
anything just because you don't have a
red camera is not the way to get better
i'd also add that you'd want to get a
variable nd as well but since you
technically can get away in most
situations just by riding the aperture
and lowering the iso i'm not going to
say you need it but it's highly
recommended alright so you've got a
camera with a mid-range zoom and that's
covering you for all the moving action
scenes where you're following your
characters around getting a variety of
shots as the story happens in front of
you but what about those moments when
things are a little slower and you can
slow down and really focus on things
like shallow depth of field and
composition without worrying about
missing something that's when you can
start thinking about the second item on
the list a prime lens i know i just went
on and on about zoom lenses and i stand
by my opinion that a zoom lens should be
your first priority in my experience
i'll have zoom lens on my camera most of
the time during a dock shoot but when
the moment allows for it it's great to
have a prime on hand too this is for
things like sit down interviews or when
you find yourself in super low light
environments where the higher aperture
of your zoom just isn't enough a single
prime lens in your bag can bail you out
of all kinds of situations and open up
some really cool creative options when
you have the time and you're not under
as much pressure to capture things in
the moment the debate about which focal
length is best will probably never end
if it were me i'd get a 24 or 35
probably some people also like 50 mil
but it's a little too tight for me to be
useful in all situations 35 would
probably be my first choice because it's
wide enough to film a decent wide but
also tight enough to use on an interview
without distortion but you can also make
a really strong case for 24 millimeter i
know people like mark bone keep one of
those on their camera pretty much all
the time so you'll have to decide for
yourself what works for you in terms of
your style when it comes to which one to
get if you can afford a sigma art lens
i'd probably go with one of those
they're built really well they're
cheaper than the canon and sony lenses
and the image quality is amazing i have
a few of them at different focal lengths
and i think they're the best value for
money out there if those are too much
you could look at something like slr
magic lenses which i've also heard good
things about if you look around on dslr
video shooters youtube page i'm sure
you're going to find a ton of
recommendations for great budget lenses
whatever you end up picking a single
prime lens in combination with the zoom
will round out your camera package
really nicely okay so that takes care of
the camera side of things but in
documentary video is only half the
equation some people are adamant that
sound is more important than video and i
might even agree with them as much as it
hurts me to admit as a dp sound is gonna
create the backbone of your story and
without good sound you're gonna have a
tough time in the edit if you have good
audio you can build out a scene in post
and cut around any mistakes in your
shots but if the audio sucks it's gonna
be really hard to keep the story rolling
a good example might be the popular
netflix crime series the jinx spoiler
alert here i'm gonna ruin the ending in
this next tip so mute the video if you
plan to watch it okay so by the final
episode we've spent five hours or
something wondering if this guy is the
murderer and right up until the last few
minutes we still don't know then he goes
into the bathroom and forgets he's
wearing a lav mic and admits the whole
thing thinking no one can hear him it's
a crazy ending and it makes the whole
show notice that the shot they have on
the screen is about as boring an image
as you could imagine yet because the
audio is there it tells the story and in
docs story is always king so to make
sure your audio base is covered you're
gonna need two things and don't worry
i'm not lumping them into one this time
the first is a decent shotgun i have a
few of them and i switch them out
depending on the camera and the weight
i'm going for if you have a big shoulder
camera like an fx9 then maybe go for
something like a sennheiser 416 at the
high end or maybe down to an mk 600 or
whatever the road equivalent is to save
on weight those mics are going to work
really well on a bigger rig but if
you're using something smaller like a
mirrorless system that doesn't have xlr
ports i'd probably downsize to something
like the rode videomic pro there are
definitely cheaper options out there but
again just get the best one you can
afford a shotgun is essential for all of
your ambient sound and in some
situations it'd probably work to cover a
character as well and without one you're
kind of screwed for basic audio but what
happens when you're following a
character through different environments
and they're not always facing you a
shotgun doesn't capture sound well
unless it's right in front of the
subject and since people don't always
live their lives thinking about the
direction of your microphone you're
gonna need a lav mic to make sure you're
getting clean audio the whole time a
scene like we just talked about from the
jinx for example would never be possible
without a shotgun alone and a lava work
even if your character is in the next
room as long as you keep the camera
rolling pro tip here i'll often put the
camera down in my lap but keep rolling
as characters talk just in case they say
something interesting then you can take
that sound bite and layer it over with
b-roll in the edit the classic basic lav
mics are sennheiser eng series which i
think is now up to the g4 i bought a set
of g3s in 2012 and have been using the
same ones ever since you might have to
change out the microphone cable itself
over the years as they can break but the
actual transmitter and receiver set
should last you a really long time
there's also cheaper options like the
road to go or whatever it's called and
i'm going to leave it to you to choose
one that works for your budget but i
just say that good audio gear never
really goes out of date so it's worth
investing in something decent because
you're going to get to keep it much
longer than your camera cheap stuff will
break faster and you're going to spend
more in the long run replacing it
whatever you go for though you'll
definitely want a wireless one because
being tethered to your characters just
won't work for a moving dock so if you
have your picture and sound sorted now
it's time to talk about the fifth and
final essential the tripod no one is
really excited about tripods except
maybe landscape photographers but a good
tripod can last your entire career i
shoot my stuff handheld probably ninety
percent of the time but for those
moments when you need a steady shot like
a sit-down interview or some
establishing landscapes there is no way
around it you're gonna need sticks i
personally use the sackler flotec 100
which is one of my favorite pieces of
gear ever i actually made an entire
video about it and how it stopped a
bullet in mexico which i'll link to
somewhere up here but that thing is
really expensive and probably not what
most people are looking for when they're
starting out i know benro makes some
budget tripods and their quality is
getting better all the time and when i
started i used one of theirs so that's
also a possible option peak design
tripods are also pretty cool if you have
a smaller camera when it comes to
choosing one for documentaries
especially if you're on a budget i would
worry less about things like carbon
fiber and extreme light weight and
instead prioritize getting one with a
ball head so you can level it without
adjusting the legs there is nothing more
annoying or hard on the back than
fiddling with little knobs trying to
drop them down to get it level and a
ball head is going to make this so much
easier if your tripod isn't level it's
super obvious to everyone watching so
the faster you can do this the happier
you'll be a single stage release is also
nice to have which basically just means
that you only have to open one latch to
drop all the lag segments rather than a
separate knob or lock for each part of
the leg but it's not a must-have by any
means a tripod is another thing like
audio where the technology doesn't
change very much so if you invest in a
decent one you're going to keep it
across multiple camera systems and
that's it with those five things a
camera and a zoom a prime lens a shotgun
a lav mic and a tripod you can cover 99
of documentary situations you can
endlessly add to this kit to the point
where you travel with seven checked bags
like i do but those are really the only
things you need to get going i'd say as
soon as you can add a good light
something like an aperture 120d maybe so
you can up the quality of your sit-down
interviews but when i was first starting
out i didn't have a light and i got by
just fine by putting my subjects near a
big window so it's definitely not
essential when i shot my first ever
video piece which was a two minute long
spot for al jazeera about cambodia's
first female mma fighter i didn't own a
tripod a light or even a prime lens so
whatever you do don't let your lack of
gear stop you from getting started so
there it is i hope this video was
helpful and thinking about how to start
building out a documentary filmmaking
kit let me know in the comments if you
think i missed anything or what you
think the essential items are and if you
liked that video you might like this one
where i go into even more detail about
my views on the great zoom vs prime lens
debate in the context of documentary
filmmaking see ya
[Music]
you
