the badlands home to some of the
strangest creatures ever to walk deserve
they were designed to serve in the event
of war but they have long since been
abandoned now without masters they're
perverts to the one thing they
understand fighting
we begin our journey on CB dustbowl
commonly known as a heart of war this
desert is where it all began and after
so many years it would be thought that
the blue team had developed some pollen
scents however that is not the case and
they still suicide into the red team in
the beginning of every mission they've
yet to realize that the red team places
Sentra's in exact same spots every time
but one day they will learn the red
team's goal of course is to prevent the
control points from being captured by
the blue team one method they have used
to correct effects is a strategy of
shooting through walls that has being
demonstrated by this heavy however he
soon decided it's not working in this
case and shoots the stairs instead the
blue team intentional capturing the
first control point using uber in an
attempt at pushing past the red team's
line of sentries it looks as though it's
working but the red team also has an
evil which they pop resulting the
mountains ersity between the two teams
they know they can't damage each other
so they just stand that staring until
the uber runs out which point in the
heavy and medic come to their centres
and retreat in the aftermath as heavy
appears unsure what to do the blue team
was advancing and after a moment of
thought he decides to try and defend
their control point along with his
engineer who attempts to build a century
unfortunately it is too late in the red
team are driven back leaving blue to
capture the control point over a control
point number two the engineers are
already preparing the lines defense
however they seem to be having trouble
upgrading their sentries they've both
built them in truly awful spots and one
of the engineers had rather run around
aimlessly than doused the file in his
building the other engineer eventually
upgrades his central tier level 2 but
unfortunately aspires other ideas he
sneaks past the entire red team and
places sappers on both turrets an
engineer comes running but he is too
late to save his own century before it
is destroyed
he then completely ignores the sapper on
the level 2 proceeds to burst entry in
the corner the second engineer is know
it to be seen and is presumed dead
meanwhile this blue engineers I'm
significantly more luck than the red
team's engineers he has already built a
century a teleporter editor Spencer and
upgraded the central to level 3 what he
is defending though nobody knows he has
been cursed by being on a attacking team
building central slowly will ever know
that is all he will ever do until death
claims him back at the second control
point the red team's decided to abandon
centuries altogether instead they've
come up with a much more sophisticated
plan that is for the entire team dwarfs
kind in one place nonetheless as anyone
would expect this turns out to be a
terrible idea
and they're quickly and brutally
massacred leaving the control points but
captured by the blue team though at
first the Scout seems to ignore the
obviously deserted area instead running
straight to his death the rest of the
blue team however see the opportunity
and grasp it winning the battle though
that was only one of many battles to
come on the way to our next destination
we make a short detour a cost nucleus as
Liz it will be short but the arrow
demonstrates an important part of the
behavior of bots for a beginning of
every round the bots committed mass
suicide Erling themselves straight to
their deaths largely looking back the
eyes fixate on the control point which
they're being programmed to capture they
never learn only obey and because of
this thousands of BOTS die every day our
next location is PL upward the blue team
here is attempting to block the enemy
base using a bombs and conveniently
placed tracks of course the red team
hasn't thought of removing the tracks
all they know is killing which doesn't
cover manual labor you'll notice here
these demo men are placing some
elaborate sticky traps it doesn't matter
where they put them bots never look
anywhere before word so they just shoot
as sticky bombs in the cartridge general
direction meanwhile at the blue team's
engineer as waited to build his
teleportal entrance at this point where
he will build the exit not even he knows
but he knows one thing that is he must
build a teleporter entrance however the
fight begins near something a boss has
never had before
it decides being a teleporters a
terrible idea and makes it hasty retreat
back into the base the red Demoman still
watching a sticky trap waiting for the
blue team to come out and push the cart
sure enough they're less and five bots
come out now instantly blown to pieces
after that the red team appears to have
the upper hand however the blue team
user uber and managed to push out of the
spawn they quickly employ the popular
strategy of everyone puts the payload
even though you only need three be able
to push it at max speed and to please be
working well for them as image to
capture the first point with lift to no
trouble but as the rest of the blue team
push the cart the spy has made a
discovery he has never seen such an
object and thus is unsure what to do the
decision is quickly made for him though
as the heavy walks past minigun spinning
and bullets spraying everywhere the spy
moves on with his life and stumbles
across the red team century this he
understands he is quick to SAP it and
the strange red building standing next
to it his joy is short-lived though as
the red pyro sees what's going on ends
despise life the engineer doesn't even
flinch today in the life of a
construction worker eventually the blue
team manages to push past the red team's
in its line of Defense's and makes her
way towards the second point however it
appears the blue team was more of a
threat to themselves in the red team are
as they once again demonstrate a sheer
misunderstanding of fatal drops both
this demo man and scouts think they have
what it takes to face the mountain part
but both fall to a sticky end at this
point the biggest cause of casualties
for the blue team seems to be the clip
as demonstrated by yet another team
member not looking where they are going
the casualty rate for the red team
meanwhile has plummeted due to the lack
of blue team to fight its medic decides
the blue team doesn't lead Anubha the
term drop has never been more
appropriate this demo man also falls off
the cliff
however the cause was more because of
the fact that he was blown off as
opposed to extreme idiocy this soldier
decides he wants to join a medic however
the last second he changed his mind and
cleans on to the side of the cliff for
dear life it attempts to climb up only
make him fall further for a moment it
looks as though he'll do it but at the
last second he slips losing both him and
two friendly medic fall to their doom
despite their lack coordination the blue
team makes progress but it's at this
point that the blue team are taught an
important lesson on how not to push a
cart for one explosion sends the entire
team flying the cliff is still hungry
for victims and claims the life of this
medic the rest of the team are unharmed
except for this demo we land safely but
jump skiers get anyway after this
obvious setback the blue team regroup
and continue to push the bomb to the
enemy base they managed to succeed in
their efforts but once again they fail
to look where they're going and they
only win because of the medic who for
once hasn't walked up the cliff we now
return to our first location dustbowl
after their recent victory the blue team
has decided to take a victory break the
sniper unfortunately is not interested
and attempts to leave however spawned
organizing his privilege and remained
shut the team's engineer decides now is
the time to put his teleporter entrance
and he swiftly does so but afterwards he
appears to be confused about something
they constantly Rams his face into this
chain-link fence
try as he might though he is unable to
return to the first area back inside the
blue base this spires discovered
something incredible located it in this
very corner what it is only he knows for
it exists only in his thoughtless mind
the alarm sounds signalling the
beginning of the fight and it snaps the
spy back to his senses
leaving him Dazed and Confused the fight
goes well for the blue team they seem
capture the first control point but
unfortunately for them their engineer's
diglettz tinkly pacifistic attitude
towards this battle one can only assume
he is making a stand against the ways of
war either that or he is just upset over
the fact that he wasn't allowed spurred
essentially in the first area meanwhile
with the red team has been assembling a
defensive last and they have decided
that standing four soldiers in a row is
the best strategy it may not be the best
way to defend a control point but no one
is going to take this wrong
especially not with the help of a
friendly medic to help them out the red
team has also employed the help of some
engineer's we have in turn built an
elaborate century nest as experts in
their field they know to get the best
efficiency out of centuries you have to
build them as close to each other as
possible
whilst being fed by a dispenser these
sentries will never be destroyed in
battle but as intelligent as these
engineers may seem there is always a
flaw in the bots strategy in this case
the engineers appear to have developed a
fascination with their teleporter for
every couple of seconds they seem to
remember its existence and have a race
to see you can get there first
the winner of course is teleported
straight back to the nest the loser
however has to walk all the way back
this continues indefinitely and for all
we know they could still be there today
but we do know one thing and that is
that the blue engineer is still standing
there still resisting the war going on
before his very eyes he has gained a
follower in this heavy but the heavy
soon grows bored and returns to battle
leaving the engineer alone making his
albums worthless
for our final location we head over to
courts sawmill the bots II have been
fighting over this location for years
but for some reason they find it
difficult to survive in its hazardous
environment nonetheless they attempt
once again to catch the control point
and it appears for once the blue team
has succeeded unfortunately all good
things must come to an end as his medic
discovers as he watches all three of his
heal targets run blindly into the side
of the source if he could feel emotions
he would definitely feel sadness the
medic searches for a new target to heal
he comes across this demo man after his
failure to keep his last patient alive
he immediately pops uber to try and save
him from the soul unfortunately schnapps
enough and the demo man is cut into the
medaka so distraught that he doesn't
realize the thought has saved him from a
pyro instead he panics and walks
backwards into it ending his own life
over on the red team the soldierin
medica pit is skiving from duty instead
of fighting they stand on the outskirts
of battle waiting for it to be over
however the fighters instead brought to
them as they are discovered by the blue
team in a moment of panic the medic pops
dooba to save his own life this seems to
reinvigorate their courage and they run
into the fray but sadly just like the
rest of their team they fail to look
where they're going and they are both
killed our journey is almost over but
there is one more thing we need to
address for the petitioning of the
engineer and dust bolt has paid off and
he has persuaded his team that fighting
is not the answer because of this they
have congregated in this corner to
demonstrate how they feel the red team
meanwhile are just confused as to why
they aren't being attacked nevertheless
they are happy for the rest fight for
once the Badlands are peaceful no
fighting will occur here today no one
knows how long this peace will last but
for all we know it could mean the
beginning of a new day for BOTS
everywhere
you
you
hi I'm the creator of this video I put a
lot of work into it and I hope you liked
it if you did maybe consider heading
over to my channel at youtube.com
forward slash too many moths you never
know there might even be another bot
documentary coming in the meantime I'd
like to give a big thank you to sin
featuring me on his channel that's all
for now thanks and have fun
you
