[Music]
you know in running there are three
things that but you really need lesser
as an athlete you know you need strength
you need endurance initially when when
when you have not grown to understand
why you're doing it they feel like
torture now especially when you're in a
groove and then they static I had to
suffer in the track then there is that
feeling the pain again before you go but
once you understand why you're doing it
and then how it impacts on your
performance then I'm gonna push you you
begin to enjoy them
precision seems not to be important at a
marathon us and that the people see so
seems not even official but to my team
is really crucial it's beneficial to us
first is that it tells us to make our
per to maintain the eye base that's the
main thing and the second is that it
actually opens the whole politically to
feel how hard training is it makes you
run in a smooth way can flow in a good
way make sure and when were in a long
run it makes you a curry move swiftly
because I have equalities continua
ported to to I speak with the same
rhythm but maintaining that time until
the transition is haw
you know practicing because you can run
constantly on high-speed because if you
do if you say let's say if you do 33
minutes on like fartlek something you
have hills or there are some stones and
going down with a lot of group so you
don't maintain high speed while track
you can run every love like the FEI 16
68 68 68 or 70 70 70 so that that speed
it opens your legs and then the longer
nose you see is much easier
the far leg is much faster again so it's
really important I think to to have
structures actually it was my worst
training always so if every time when I
know how to Taurus Tuesday as I don't
know because to run constant cross when
you're always difficult even in
marathons are like sometimes literally
let the group go and then chase them
again and so that chasing give me energy
but we have to run like like a robot it
was very difficult always but the last
actually last year the last two seasons
I'm able to stay in front do my part
also to pace the group ones and to run
actually good instructor and then I saw
when I change that mentality
I was running much faster than America
ideally you know when you're writing a
program we profile athletes so the the
profile of acting is that you are
dealing with gives you what packets you
should put in your speech session
training so let's say an athlete with
jacketing to 2 hours 3 minutes for
example you know so you you you you do a
range of from that key top group to the
people who are also running 2 to 10 to 9
then do a range so that you know your
training program will capture in the
interest of the athlete running 2 or 3
to the one running 2 to 9 to 10 if you
are training with your a camera or
injured and your enough coming at it and
then you post yourself to stay with them
then naturally you're killing myself
so we always encourage people just to to
know themselves understand their bodies
so that when they go for training they
are taking their position they are not
following and/or posing themselves to
fit into the position over anybody else
that's what we calculate in them and we
time it's not something that happens
instantly but we time they'll understand
we always encourage them to pace
themselves be it in you know speed
sessions on the track or in the long run
you know you need to know how to balance
your energy side that you know you
finish the training you know
[Music]
yeah the good thing with track session
is that as we do repetition even if
somebody is dropped with one repetition
then you can go in front in the next
repetition so we try to to put somebody
else in the front to place I can start
with placing the first 1000 then another
guy take the second 1000 and then
continuing like this and that's why it's
really nice to be a group when you go
for a track session on my own it would
be very difficult I mean the motivation
you get from the booth is is uncountable
like even when you are exhausted you
have one guy in front of you to to to
pace you to push you it's it's really
helping and I think sometimes when you
are tired you cannot think so straight
and you you you will feel unmotivated
for the next wave but if you have
someone you have no choice
kind of nervous before transition I
always want to to reach the time that my
my coach is sending me and sometimes I
know it's it will be tough but we have
to do it there is no choice here coach
will fade not take over this so people
don't push too much the person in front
of you is not it's not like
a gap is there's no gap to the other guy
you're gonna have to pass coming thrown
just stay where you are so if you see on
the video we're gonna like a long train
so the first if it is 10 times 60
nanometers that first 10 people will do
the first of guy will do 60 non-material
go back
number 11 now and then the one was
number two he would take it over later
and like that so sometimes you see like
some people take a type I want to skip
it because EULA is play your position
it's your turn to do technical we like
to help each other as a team and but
also don't express it because it's the
code let it go you know someone who may
feel nice today and say let me 6262
instead of 68 so we want to run like
constant actually that's the only train
that coach controls is like
[Applause]
[Music]
as a certain point the matter can be
also a sprint competition so that you
know reputation sessions speed workers
it can help you like that
it doesn't matter if it is a 80
kilometer or 30 kilometer or 42
kilometer you need it somehow somewhere
so you have to be capable of doing that
[Music]
yeah sometimes I have a 2 times a week 2
times the speed work sometimes I work in
the like like today force will work one
time I go to in the trash so choose one
one week I go to pull the truck one week
I came to filete this kind of places so
like this way sir is very necessary
fantastic also sometimes I go to foreign
and the truck like I'm suppose to do
just combining for both places like this
place in like four truck so it's it's
depend of two youth program is different
once it's the speed work and the reason
why we do track workers it makes the
other work easier so if you have if you
have that fast training on the track and
you go to the long run it feel way
easier and that's the most reason I
think rather feeling every time I do
track and the next time we're going to
further like a long run it's way easier
and I think that's the secret that way a
lot of model renders feels sometimes
track athlete think every athlete have
some days that you don't feel 100% so
it's always great to have someone who
feel 100% and to push that limit and
yeah we motivate each other and we help
each other to make the heart work easier
[Music]
if speed is very important because look
sometimes you have to keep
advance advance advance means if you are
going it run let's say marathon at 250
you need to maintain a speed workout and
you need to cover speed may be difficult
you have to run faster if you trade
maybe on the speed to 42 minutes 40
seconds if you have seconds
so that means not
tragedy just relax you know especially
doing training on on attitude going
silly wheel you know you get much
advantage
easily you can catch up the pace and
running relax it actually we are
following a program set so we we are
crossing each lap with a certain time
where they have got just given us if
it's low we have to increase and if it's
faster we have to maintain it
[Music]
sometimes when you feel you want to call
you have to relax and that shows that
you re in a in a coochie yeah
it's more of a control environment since
when the coach before beginning each and
every session then we go to the coach
the coach explains to us that this is
the best so we try to stick at the pace
of the coach and sodomized us so we
don't get crazy but maybe two at the end
we can cut crazy closets so we are we
are nearing the end of the session
our speed is not so fast in like 1000 is
anomaly ran from 250 mm 2.5 38 to 40
that's a fast real fast that say to
photograph during the last time like mm
we are doing after 5.6 540 1,600 here -
enough - 4412 understeer team up to 315
317 actually we don't run that much
faster okay for Elliot here on his face
but Mia's like 260 I know but I remember
I run 159 in great role in the UK last
year September and I think I was running
like 250 250 that's what we do see any
training always so that time it was
feeling actually nice like I was able to
run constantly - GT - reached 250 while
2 years back if you told me like that
that's fun so truck actually opens you
let you always say that I don't know how
to explain but to open your legs you
could go much faster much easier for the
in the long run and as I say also fart
legging Kagome we have a cool system
whereby you are leading and somebody's
following and when you finish you go
back and follow the others it gives
everybody a chance to show his energy
that and tell him that there you can you
are able to do in there is in if you are
ever the trucking profession in a
cutaway it's teamwork teamwork also call
it open minds of many people
Tim workers alkalete a belief that
somebody can do better there Berkeley
doing you asana in a good way
you know when you start began stalking
after the speed have been done your body
reacts because this is when you are
becoming tired and when you become tired
and then you began another speed speed
walk your body wants to adapt so that
when you become tired in a race there is
that reaction from your body that you
are used to then you can speed up and
can never affect you
[Music]
it's really special to to everyone here
in camp because when we want to trust we
work together as a team and when we
achieve we celebrate that that we did as
a team and it's always it's always about
teamwork which is our key close to
everyone that to be a an active member I
support a supportive member so you have
to do a pact to give everyone a chance
to need to work for himself and to
achieve what he what he or she wants
someone will drop you get motivation
someone will go too fast and the code
will punish him to do it again everyone
will of course so of course then you
make jokes and laugh and this is
actually nice thing but I used to hate
it but now I will enjoy
this group of athletes that we handle
and coach I've worked in a formula of
team ik so naturally when they we go for
training they organize themselves
we don't know ask them in the beginning
when you started the whole thing
organize them but somehow naturally
they've grown into the system and causes
they believe in teamwork I think we all
enjoy
it's about Akali acceptance about love
in the track session
it's about knowing the phonetics it's
about knowing that that is their own
road to success
after transition that is why we had each
other hands after the transition because
of what we have done it to show that
it's science over we have done it
something good
yes of course taxation is are always
tough because of mas Pete but I do
always enjoy so much in speed petitions
because when I achieved the tacit which
was set for the speed it's always my
choice it's always my special moment
that I've achieved what was set for
today and it motivates me to go for the
next day the next session
[Music]
