we're talking
interview styles this is gonna be a
classic educational video we're going
through
all the interview styles in documentary
filmmaking so let's get into it
the first style i'm just to call
standard this is when you have someone
sitting looking just off to the side of
camera this is where you put your
interviewer as close to the lens as
possible that's my suggestion because
the eye line look i'm looking just off
to the camera you can already tell that
i'm not looking at the camera i'm
looking at the camera looking off the
camera looking at the camera off camera
so don't put someone over there because
now you're getting a lot of the face you
want to see both eyes that's how we
connect with people but a standard
interview is the safest way to approach
documentaries it's been kind of the more
traditional way it's often how i do my
films and the way to make it a bit more
juicy is i like to use a floating camera
to the side where i get that side angle
the camera's moving i can go from their
hands to their face shallow depth of
field it feels a bit more cinematic i
would say to use a very overused term
but i like shooting from that side and
the key with these interviews is always
have the person looking towards the
light wherever your key light is make
sure they're looking to that side
because then you'll have the shadow side
on the opposite and that's where you'll
put your b camera or if you have them
looking off this way they're going to be
looking into the shadows and it's not as
nice when people have full shadow on
their face rather than looking into that
beautiful light the pros of this style
is that it's very safe and easy to do
the con it's just that it's very safe
it's probably the least creative
approach but that's okay because it
works and sometimes though it can feel a
bit distant if you just have a side
angle this person staring off into space
you don't always feel connected whereas
if you do the enterotron that's number
two which is coined from an amazing
documentary filmmaker errol morris
that's where you're looking down the
barrel of the lens why it's called in
teratron is he would use this kind of
video display two-way mirror glass
similar to a teleprompter and he would
display his face over the camera lens
and it would be two-way glass so you
wouldn't see it on the image but he
would be talking to the person looking
right down the barrel there's cheaper
systems of this that just use mirrors
but the great part about that is what's
happening right now in this is i'm
connecting with you i'm looking into
your eyes and you're looking at me and
you're beautiful in every single way
don't let anyone ever tell you that but
we get to have a connection even though
i'm just staring into a deep dark black
hole of the camera lens and where the
enterotron style excels is that it's
more
intimate it creates a better connection
with the audience in my opinion than
other styles because you're looking
directly at them now the con of it is
that it does require some technology one
benefit of it is in my cnn film is they
interrotroned me into the interview i
was in canada and rod here was down in
la and we were talking together i was
just over zoom and he could see my face
on the zoom screen and it felt like we
had a conversation so it is a cool style
it's sometimes overused but you do see
in a lot of documentaries these days and
so it's a great way to try out and one
little thing is if you have someone
who's a bit more confident you don't
necessarily need the entertron you can
just ask them to look directly into lens
when they talk but usually looking into
a lens is a bit intimidating
the next interview style is
conversational this is where you get two
people talking about a topic and you
shoot it kind of like a traditional
scripted film the difficulty of this is
you're often gonna need two cameras to
cross shoot or you're gonna be good at
getting what we call the counter shot
this is the person listening you can see
the scene from battleground i did this
on my own it's very intimate and it
feels like something happening in real
time but what i had to do at the end is
i had to go back over and just ask quasi
to nod and listen which can get awkward
at times but man it's such a natural
style of interview and you can prompt
the people to talk about certain
subjects but what's great is they make
it their own this is truly one of my
favorite styles of documentary
interviews because it feels the most
natural conversational when pulled off
authentically can be one of the more
powerful interview styles in a
documentary and in our course they're
out of documentary we break down a ton
of different scenes from our
feature-length documentaries where we do
conversational style mike really
implements this quite amazing in his
films he'll break down full scenes in
his award-winning documentaries of how
he shoots conversation interviews on his
own to make it look like there's two
cameras and he does an amazing job of
prompting them in a way that never feels
like there's a director so it feels like
you're just a fly on the wall and if
you're interested in art of documentary
we're opening the doors september 12th
you always hear me talking about this
this is launch season and i have to talk
about it because you'll miss out we
don't open the doors again until march
of next year and what is art of
documentary well it's our course in
academy it's a huge community of over 2
500 filmmakers who are making amazing
films right now we get to encourage each
other we do monthly zoom calls we have
over 140 videos between our three
modules which go into how to tell
stories how to find documentaries how to
never get stuck in your edit how to
increase your business as a filmmaker so
you can go shoot these documentaries
these passion projects everything you've
ever needed to know about filmmaking not
just the gear and technical not just how
to use luts or transitions but how to
actually tell a story doesn't matter
what camera you have in your hand or
what technical knowledge you have if you
don't know how to tell a good story and
that's where art of documentary comes in
to help you complete the films that are
on your heart and that you know you're
meant to make the world needs your voice
and you don't have to make those films
on your own so come be a part of the art
of documentary doors open september 12th
we'll have 30 off but let's get back to
the tutorial i just get excited about
aod
so our fourth interview style i call
this the host plus standard this is
where you have that standard interview
where someone's looking just off camera
but instead of looking into the void we
actually get to see what they're looking
at which is a reverse angle of a host
this is typical of news journalist films
you'll sometimes see people like michael
moore implement this into their films
you get to see the conversations that's
happening but the way the filmmakers
approach this is they're not avoiding
the fact that it's actually a sit-down
interview it's two people in a very
traditional sense sitting in chairs well
lit talking this best works like i
mentioned for journalist pieces or films
where you've decided to put yourself in
the movie to be honest it's not my
favorite style but it is effective if
you're doing a journalist style
documentary but there's another version
with a host called host plus
conversation and again i've just coined
all these terms there might be other
terms you can leave them below this is
that anthony bourdain style this is
where we're not just watching a
conversation but we're aware there's a
host and they're prompting the person
with questions but we get to watch them
conduct that interview in a very casual
sense so it's a conversation but the
host is there to help guide it along the
downfalls of this is that again it can
get boring at times if we're just
watching someone try to ask questions
that may not be working but the engaging
part of this is that it's fun you get to
do it wherever you want you can do it in
a car you could do it walking in a field
there's many different ways to approach
the host plus conversation style and if
you again are in your own film if you've
put yourself in this film or you're
following a host it's a great way to
keep it natural and it doesn't feel so
stagnant the next style i want to talk
about is what i call in the moment this
is where we're seeing two people walking
it's a bit similar to host plus standard
but something is happening on camera
again it's like watching a conversation
except for watching two people
do something and you're grabbing bits of
the interview that way you sometimes see
tv shows do this where they'll have them
doing a task they'll do like basket
weaving or something i don't know if we
can even find b-roll of that
but this gets away from the host
conversation style and again begins to
feel more authentic because it doesn't
actually feel like an interview feels
like more of an organic natural
conversation and the last interview
style is just standard voiceover this is
where you don't have the person on
camera but i would always encourage you
if you can shoot that interview because
you never know when you need to cut to
it but films like killer be killed or my
latest film about tornadoes
i mostly rely on voice over in those
films but i still shoot the interviews
for that one or two moments where i do
cut to them you'll watch killer be
killed we filmed that entire interview
and joel narrates the entire film but we
only cut to it like twice and that's
where i would rather show engaging
b-roll that embodies what he's saying
than just sitting there watching someone
talk but i think voiceover is a great
way for you as a filmmaker to push
yourself to push yourself to shoot more
real-time scenes and to show more of
life rather than having someone just sit
there and tell you about life showing is
way more interesting than telling and i
would encourage you if you're making
your films don't just settle for someone
talking and then cutting to random
b-roll if you're gonna have b-roll make
it connect to what they're talking and
if you don't have to show them talking
show some engaging b-roll or better yet
show a scene
so there you go i hope that helped
shooting interviews is one of my
favorite parts of documentary you don't
have to be scared about it if you're
nervous on how to do that we have tons
of information on this youtube channel
better yet check out our documentary
because we have tons of videos on how to
do better interviews how to set them up
what questions to ask and more
importantly knowing what story you're
telling when you're going into the
interview because you are a storyteller
you're not just a content capturer so
leave some comments below if there's any
other videos you guys want me to do make
sure to jump on the
artofdocumentary.com onto that wait list
30 off on september 12th doors are only
open for two weeks don't miss this
chance to take the next step in your
career we'll have payment plans and
we'll have bundle deals if you want to
buy multiple courses don't just take my
word for it get in the comments and i'm
sure there's some aod students watching
this who'll let you know how much they
love the community check it out the art
of documentary.com and i'll see you on
the next one
you
