[Music]
scenarios in my head played out over and
over again of me snapping someone's neck
punching them I was really convinced I
was a pretty bad person I had no
understanding of what was going on in my
mind every 10 seconds
I had an intrusive thought popping into
my head and it went on for months i
forgo ways just a thing didn't go away
[Music]
I'm Alison and I've had puro and OCD for
16 years a lot of the things that I
think about our violence so I'll think
about doubting things out hitting
someone and pushing her downstairs I'll
be sitting in the passenger side of my
mom's driving and I can see my hand on
the steering wheel and I can see myself
steering the car into oncoming traffic
and it's like it's almost already done I
have a funny kind of experience with
unwanted thoughts because at first when
I didn't know what intrusive thoughts
were I thought they were terrible I
thought they were absolutely terrible I
don't really want to push my mom down
the stairs like a part of me is so sure
that that's what needs to happen and
that I'm going to do it a lot of people
would be shocked to be the way that I
sometimes talk to my mum I was SATA I
really want to push you downstairs I
really want to hit you I really want to
snap your neck I just like oh that's
interesting
oh that's good oh that's okay cool nice
anyway
what's for dinner what are you cooking
to the death I know she's really tired
of it sometimes she'll play along
[Music]
these thoughts are or we call
inconsistent with their values and
therefore they are ridiculous and absurd
to the individual and therefore they do
not get any gratification from or
pleasure
they're extremely distressing to the
individual and they're spending their
life trying to get rid of them or
control them everyone has intrusive
thoughts
most people when waiting for a train
might have thought what happens if I
stepped out in front of it someone might
be cutting something up with their
kitchen knife and they might suddenly
realize it would actually be incredibly
easy to just stab someone with this a
person with pure Oh might dwell on that
thought more than average they might be
concerned that says something about them
you'll have a thought you'll go over it
and over it and over and over it it
could be absolutely anything and it is
just thinking but thinking constantly
and at that pace
it makes your exhausted pure oh is a
term used by sufferers to describe
symptoms of obsessive compulsive
disorder where people experience
intrusive thoughts images urges doubts
inside their mind which restrain me
distressing or common obsessional
thoughts and worries might be around sex
and violence or religious themes so for
example in our sexual obsessions it
might be the fear that you're a
pedophile when you're not old you're
gonna push people in front of the train
my name is Kirk Stasi I am a
self-employed illustrator Oh she'd be
like different themes to torture its
hosts with with the religious stuff you
get a lot of guilt don't say this don't
go there don't do that if I thought of a
joke and laughed ah
that's rude you can't say that you have
to say sorry to God otherwise he will
punish you so I was a religious person
even though I wasn't religious I think
the images were just a flicker of a
force it was like a person in a white
gown it was another one was the crucifix
there was enough of one image of the
Pope or Christ a flash bang it's there
and it's like it's like nice Gaussian it
comes out you've got this overwhelming
anxiety and also
so guilt you feel guilty for having
these faults that you cannot control I
felt that that was the torture I deserve
for having a fault in the first place so
you're trapped in this cycle the point
being it's not your fault and there are
lots of things that then shape you
during childhood and adolescence but
there is really always various triggers
or things that are associated with the
onset not always but quite often my name
is Nathan I'm 24 and I'm from Hartford
shear I think what happened when I was
about 11 my nan died I became so worried
that I would lose my mum I had these
obsessive thoughts about her dying and I
remember I just constantly asked her if
she was okay if she got really irritated
because I was just asking her too much
but you didn't even if nobody wants to
be asked the same question again and
again and again the thought of my mom
died and terrified me so I had no
understanding of what was going on in my
mind
I eventually began to realize that there
was something a bit weird about the way
I was thinking obviously at the time
that I'd never knew what he was I didn't
associate that with OCD that's only
something I've recently realized it was
there at my young age been there a lot
longer than I thought it was my history
goes back 25 years the trigger for me
secondary school my myself and a few
friends who quit and local newsagent get
some snacks and I saw one of my friends
as he walked in grab some pick-and-mix
and shoved it in his pocket and I
thought that's how easy it is well out
of a crack and I could show off to my
friends as I came out hey guys look look
what I've got the store detective was
walking in the shop and she heard it did
you steal those I was mussed in the shop
and I think said well this is really bad
the police gonna go to your house have a
word with your parents they may have to
go to your school and just raid on me
with all these threats and I fought
there my mates of polyed used to spread
it like wildfire as a result I became
kind of school phobic more they tried to
push you against that fear the more
effective really really a sad time that
one incident could create such a
traumatic
affect the area I live in super quiet
nothing happens but I just feel like
someone's gonna jump out everyone is a
danger everyone is violent everyone
could kill me I might hurt somebody else
if they attack me it's kind of my big
thing at the moment is that every second
I'm calculating what's a weapon but I
can use to protect myself with I last
left house Christmas Eve
so from Christmas Eve until 12th of
January but it's not felt strange it's
just felt safe I really ate at the
beginning of the year so I think well
it's another year that I've not changed
or I've not progressed other people are
doing it so why am I still here
struggling yeah the first time seeing my
GP I said you know I the thoughts get
implied and then for some reason I
convinced myself I it was developing
schizophrenia which my uncle has
schizophrenia so I kind of genuine
worried if you if you will like that
didn't pluck yourself out of nowhere
like I had a reason there was kind of
some substance I guess to to that
obsession I literally would just stay in
the bed for the whole with the laptop
for two weeks there's no use trying my
parents would try and get me up and
things I just kind of have to be left
alone like I there's no I'm not gonna
I'm not gonna be able to function you
just kind of have to leave me but they
were just worried they but kind of
realized there was something something
wrong what healthy people without OCD
experience are exactly the same content
as the intrusive thoughts that occur in
OT the content is the same but the
problem in pure he is the meaning that
you're attached to them perhaps thinking
these things beans that I might act upon
them or that I'm immoral for having
these thoughts or the way that you
respond to them control them avoid them
or suppress them all these things feed
the obsession 2003 had a really bad ear
infection it just felt like someone was
sticking a red-hot needle in there I was
diagnosed with a close chesty oma which
is like a tumor inside it destroys the
inside of the ear
left untreated it can invade the brain
and cause meningitis that kind of stuff
and they arranged an operation but we
have to be careful not to hit the facial
nerve otherwise aside your Facebook drop
I thought well I'll put the operation on
hold because I didn't like the idea of
going into hospital and I've been
knocked out and that became a city let
fear and it grew you're dead you're a
dead man the HSE a Murnau has spread to
the other ear it's taken my hearing down
I've got white noise in both ears when
it gets near the point of you know your
operations next week I knew it would be
the death of me because I would not be
able to surpass it or overcome it cause
maybe therapy includes exposure and
ritual prevention in other words it's
about trying to test out your fears
developing a different relationship your
thoughts that these are just your own in
a world and you cannot control them you
allow the thoughts to be there but you
can't you don't necessarily have the
exact same reaction so you end up
pulling it apart and figuring out a way
of discerning water authentic concerns
versus what's them by OCD combined with
the medication that's how I you get
through the day gets through life my
first encounter with CBT was on the NHS
it was in a basement of a four-story
building I used to look up the building
regulations of any building that I went
into I would check out their fire stuff
like when the last on there to fire a
check was like when last time that the
gas person was there it was in the
basement this room was tiny it had no
windows I couldn't help but feel like
there wasn't enough air in there for the
both of us he had a shirt that didn't
fit that bothered me
his hair was a knock home but that
bothered me he was like really red-faced
there are far too many things to me to
think about to actually credit that
person that was front of me I had no
respect for him whatsoever there's a
possibility that I wasn't really ready
to listen to anything that I felt was
wrong that how I was living wasn't great
for me and so I feel like I deflect
adalah my anger and the way that I was
really feeling about my situation on
that person erp which stands for
exposure response prevention it's about
exposing yourself to that which you fear
so so you're completely avoiding knives
you didn't even want to see one he might
go towards starting to use the knife for
its intended purpose perhaps using the
knife around other people by exposing
themselves to their very uncomfortable
anxiety you don't stay in that state of
high anxiety forever it will eventually
stop to go down so the last time I had
gone to any by myself that was when I
was convinced I was both a psychopath
and I think a narcissism and it's just
the process of having to going up to
that desk and then tell the person
what's going on with you and then you go
and see somebody and there's nothing
they can do they are any concern is to
work out with her and what you're either
a danger to yourself or to the public
and if you're not and they then then
they send you off on your own as well
which is a really quite horrible
experience I kind of feel like they
should have specific sections in in in a
any departments for mental health issues
which I'm sure they probably do at some
hospitals but never one that I've been
to many people that can be cured for
some people that can only be merged and
for some people it's a struggle when I
had pure Oh mine was incredibly severe I
couldn't do anything else and it was
incredibly scary it still does
occasionally pop up but it doesn't make
me afraid in fact it really has no
effect whatsoever so it will pop up and
then maybe I won't have it anymore for
the next couple of days there's always
been this big debate whether you cure or
you manage it depends what you consider
to be cured
I'm a complete night yeah I don't know
if I'm hopeful I just get the get on
with life how will these up things I
want to get done with my life I think
hope is a waste kind of wasted energy
you know I just think things as they
can't it's not gonna go anywhere I think
I think is too embedded in my
personality no I started to but my brain
whatever but I think it's gonna go away
when I look back at the old me I feel
sorry for that person who was in the
bubble you have to convince part of your
brain that you can beat this thing it's
about exposure I have to expose myself
to the spikes in anxiety expose myself
to the intrusive thoughts and live
anyway live through them not around them
which I'm really good at doing you can
create a structure where you could
survive it I'm happy that I'm actually
creating artwork and selling it and I am
taking commissions I'm happy now if you
want to change something you have to
actually actively make changes to be too
afraid to make the changes it's just
accepting that where you are now is
perfectly fine for you which is not so I
have to do stuff like walk around the
block understanding that someone isn't
going to jump out from the bushes and
try and attack me if you do something
enough and you sort like retrain your
brain then you should really like
rewrite like your neural pathways
basically I should be able to rewrite
the story in my head
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
you
