[Music]
oh
right i'm ready
what just happened
hello i like money
[Applause]
[Music]
hello internet welcome to film theory
the show that's all about soaking up
knowledge like a sponge over the years
we've done our fair share of spongebob
theories from concluding that spongebob
was actually adopted to trying to solve
the krabby patty secret formula but to
this day there's been one very popular
theory that we've never touched and that
is the nuclear mutation theory basically
the theory that all the sapient sea
creatures that we see on the spongebob
squarepants show are the result of
nuclear testing now that might initially
seem like a logical leap like why would
anyone jump to such an extreme
conclusion about the backstory of these
characters but when you stop and
actually look at the evidence there's a
lot here that adds up with the biggest
point being that spongebob's home is
called bikini bottom named after the
infamous bikini atoll which as you may
know is a group of islands in the south
pacific located more than 3 000 miles or
5 000 kilometers off the coast of
australia basically in the middle of
nowhere this remote location prompted
the us government in the 1940s to say
hey this seems like a great place to
test our nuclear weapons and boy howdy
did they do a lot of testing on those
islands according to official reports
the united states detonated 23 nuclear
devices during the time including one in
1954 that was 1 100 times larger than
the hiroshima atomic bomb in a lesser
known part of the story there were
actually about 150 people living on
those islands that they had to relocate
during the period of testing and then
they sent back to live on the island
seriously in the 1960s there was
actually an attempt to resettle the
bikini atoll islands something that
ended in the 1970s when they realized
that um living on a former nuclear test
site ain't great for your longevity it's
honestly a horrific story and also real
scary how little scientists back then
knew about the full ramifications of the
nuclear weapons they were testing and
that child friendly story is where
bikini bottom got its name no theory
there friends just pure fact it is
directly mentioned on the viacom
international website program
informacion for the show and since it's
common knowledge at this point that
radiation causes mutations hey maybe
these humanoid sea creatures are the
direct result of said testing at the
atoll so that's the theory friends i've
certainly heard worse heck i've
certainly made worse in fact the theory
was so good that it got mainstream
attention back in 2017 when the
huffington post interviewed spongebob's
voice actor tom kenny they asked him
point blank what do you think about the
popular theory that spongebob is the
result of nuclear testing and rather
than trying to dance around the question
he confronted it outright quote well
bikini bottom is kind of named after
bikini atoll you know where they did
nuclear testing decades ago but i don't
think spongebob and his friends are
mutations i think bikini bottom is like
its own world when the camera drops
below the water and you go to bikini
bottom it's almost like it's another
planet you know there's never topical
references in the show there's never an
oprah joke or who wants to be a
millionaire joke or anything topical or
pop cultural in spongebob and i think
that helps keep it really timeless and
everlasting end quote uh
what never a pop culture reference tom
have you seen the show that made you
famous you've got references to mary
poppins too bad you forgot your umbrella
a clockwork orange
otherwise known as number 655321
that iconic scene from rebel without a
cause
and sure those are just cultural
references but then again what about
this how will we ever get back to bikini
bottom now i can take you there who are
you i'm david hasselhoff david
hasselhoff riffing on his 80s tv series
baywatch yeah and regardless you have a
squirrel that's explicitly from texas
it's texas spongebob even sings the
ever so humble there's no place like
home song in an episode i'm not trying
to be mean to tom kenny or anything i'm
just trying to establish that this is a
world that very clearly interacts with
the real life surface world thereby
meaning the bikini atoll theory has legs
to stand on horrific disgusting mutant
legs anyway that's his opinion but again
he's just the voice actor could it be
possible that stephen hillenburg the
show's creator intended for this to be
the case he was after all a creator who
was formerly a marine biologist and
cared about things like humanity
polluting the ocean so why not start a
series about the pollution of nuclear
fallout and that sponge boys and sponge
girls is what we're exploring today
we're looking into both the science and
lore of spongebob to definitively prove
or disprove this massive fan theory and
let me tell you this the final result is
not only surprising it's actually the
first time something like this has
happened on film theory no joke a
theorist first so put on your best
theorist pants friends because i'm ready
i'm ready i'm ready for a theory review
leave your theories in the comments
below
i'll pick my favorites in the next
episode of morty
first sure it's named after the place
but is bikini bottom's location in the
show plausibly near bikini atoll in the
pacific ocean yes it has been proven
time and again that bikini bottom is
indeed in the pacific ocean in the
season 3 episode pranks a lot we see
sandy launch herself out of the ocean
and back to texas and she comes from the
east and in the spongebob squarepants
movie as our titular yellow rectangle
sings goofy goober rock the camera zooms
out of the ocean specifically at the
location where bikini atoll is irl it's
not the most accurate of globes but if
this is australia and that's north
america here's where bikini atoll is irl
and here's where they zoomed out of in
the movie yep it is definitely real
close even the sea life that we see in
bikini bottom lines up here we see all
sorts of animals large and small filter
through the town but large permanent
residents like pearl the sperm whale yep
bikini atoll is absolutely within her
range of habitat blue whales like frank
the whale yep in range puffer fish like
mrs puff yep and on and on the list
continues so just from the initial check
here yes bikini atoll lines up both
geographically and marine biologically
with the places and characters that
we're seeing throughout bikini bottom so
let's now look at the science of
radiation most media tend to treat
nuclear radiation like magical fairy
dust that just gives special powers to
anything it touches why is the hulk
green and super strong radioactive blast
where did peter parker get his spidey
sense radioactive spider how did
professor x become a telepath a
radioactive bomb at least if you're
reading the x-men comics from the 1960s
yeah they've kind of washed over that
part of marvel comics history but in the
early days professor x was the result of
his parents working on the first atomic
bomb anyway even spongebob the show
leans into this trope with the character
atomic flounder who's apparently so
radioactive that he can just cause
people to spurt extra mutant arms by
touching them with his nuclear touch
careful medical boy he's got nuclear
touch now of course that's part of an
in-world tv show that spongebob and
patrick are watching on a vhs tape and
not really canonical to the true setting
of bikini bottom but it does demonstrate
that the concept of nuclear mutation
does exist within this fictional world
which then begs the question just how
realistic is the trope this isn't just a
digression it's a question of science if
steven hillenburg wanted to ground his
show in some element of science just how
close to real science is this concept
well it's certainly far off but also not
as inaccurate as you might expect i
think we all understand that nuclear
radiation is bad and dangerous right
like i don't think any of us are eagerly
running away to roll around in the dirt
of chernobyl hoping that we become the
next jubilee a former nuclear testing
site is generally not the kind of place
that people or marine wildlife are going
to want to live nor the kind of place
where they're going to be able to thrive
and build a fully functioning marine
society well sure it is true that
nuclear radiation results in mutations
the vast majority of them are bad and
not just like a little bad they're bad
in a cause your organs to stop working
properly kind of way so does that mean
that nuclear radiation is a non-starter
and trying to induce beneficial mutation
like we see in spongebob no because
while most mutations are actual death
sentences it doesn't mean that all of
them are see for instance the atomic
gardening movement of the 1950s which
aimed to intentionally induce mutations
in living plants by blasting them with
radiation now before you get too excited
about this being a way to help your
petunias grow it's important to remember
that most plants didn't fare too well in
these experiments in gamma gardens as
they were called gardeners would arrange
a 5-acre circular plot with a radiation
source in the middle the plants nearest
to the center usually died and most
others featured what researchers at the
time described as tumors or other
abnormalities but there were incredibly
rare situations where the mutations were
actually beneficial in nature and you
see that right there's the point the
breeders who are trying to develop new
types of plants didn't need all or heck
even most of the plants to survive the
process their goal was to just take the
most genetically fit or genetically
interesting from each generation and use
those seeds to create more of them it
was essentially a way of accelerating
the process of selective breeding
instead of waiting for interesting
mutations to occur naturally you
artificially induce them using radiation
and according to dr pierre lagotta of
the international atomic energy agency
radiation breeding has produced
thousands of useful mutants including
varieties of rice wheat pears peas
cotton bananas and peanuts and going
back to bikini atoll for a minute sea
life seems to be returning there
according to a recent article the place
is slowly coming back to life with quote
coral the size of cars as well as
schools of fish and crabs that eat
radioactive coconuts all of this is to
say that while the spongebob nuclear
testing theory might seem absurd on its
face or something that would only work
in science fiction it is actually based
in some level of scientific fact it is
certainly possible from a scientific
angle that this theory could work except
there is one big problem that ultimately
debunks this theory and that's time
because while the bikini bottom nuclear
testing theory does indeed square with
some real world evidence what it doesn't
hold up against is the tv evidence the
actual lore of the show the entire basis
of the nuclear testing theory is that
the intelligence of bikini bottoms
residents and their ability to create a
human-like society is the result of
mutations that happened in the 40s and
50s when the island was being bombarded
with nuclear devices the big problem
there is that bikini bottom has a
history far older than that in the
episode dunces and dragons we flash back
to the 12th century and see that bikini
bottom back then bikini bottom shire was
home to a basic society of sapient sea
creature don't hold thy breath we'll be
lucky if we get fed again by the 12th
century bikini bottomshire had the
ability to verbally communicate a basic
system of government basic architecture
in other words all of signs of animal
intelligence that we see from them in
the present day centuries before us
humans ever started messing around with
nuclear technology at the end of the
episode spongebob tries to brush it all
off as some dream huh patrick but
patrick quickly subverts that worn out
trope by pointing out that one of the
citizens of bikini bottom shire the
king's jester squidly has time traveled
back to the present along with them
besides that spongebob's reactions
throughout the episode and the existence
of the medieval moment stadium in the
present day confirmed that the
civilization of present-day bikini
bottom has a history dating back to the
medieval era 12th century don't you see
patrick we really are in medieval times
and the history of unnaturally
intelligent sea life in bikini bottom
goes back even further than that all the
way to the prehistoric era surely we all
remember the primitive sponge and
primitive star memes that originated
from season one
what are you simpletons doing and while
these two might not seem like the
shining example of advanced animal
intelligence just take a look at them
they're wearing loincloths which mean
that they're sophisticated enough to
create clothing and while they haven't
developed a spoken language squidward is
able to train them to use basic tools we
see the same thing in the episode
spongebob bc where prehistoric society
has advanced enough that we see basic
language starting to develop
[Music]
i could list more examples here but i
think you get the point usually in these
videos the lore leads us to a ridiculous
theory that eventually gets debunked by
science but this time it's actually the
exact opposite the lore is the thing
doing the debunking there's no denying
that bikini bottom is inspired by and
named after bikini atoll and as we
explore today the marine life matches up
the real world geography matches up we
know nuclear testing happened there heck
we even know that in super rare cases
nuclear fallout can result in beneficial
mutation from that perspective the
citizens of bikini bottom could
absolutely have been made into the
advanced society they are today as the
result of human experimentation but the
theory just doesn't hold up when you
actually examine the lore of the series
bikini bottom was advanced centuries
before humans discovered the destructive
force of radiation an unexpected outcome
to be sure but it looks like the nuclear
testing theory just doesn't hold water
or as you might say it's just a theory a
film theory and if you're looking for
something that does hold water or soda
or milk look no further than these
reusable dishwasher safe cups that we're
selling over on food theory that's right
you goofy goobers food theory right now
has merch which means that i now have
another bullet point on my modeling
resume in all seriousness though if
you're a fan of spongebob i recommend
you check out our latest food theory
episode where we tested the double
krabby patty with the works in real life
let's just say it performed incredibly
well as incredibly as this food theory
apron looks on yours truly follow the
link below to watch that episode and
check out food theory merch because food
theory's got it all t-shirts reusable
cups aprons pizza plushies that's right
now you can have your very own slice
just like i had back in my theater days
so don't be a kelp for brains make your
theory dreams become a reality today and
cut
[Music]
[Music]
you
