take it off
welcome to watchmojo.com and today we'll
be counting down the top 10 movie strip
teases
[Music]
as you can imagine the following clip
contains mature content and just to set
the mood we better tell you that right
off the bat we've decided to omit male
strip teases despite how entertaining
they may be number 10 Rose McGowan
grindhouse planets terror
now this is a great way to kick off any
list let alone any movie during the
opening credits to this horror movie
masterstroke were treated to a private
show by a go-go dancer aptly named
Cherie darling her job is to get our
pulses pounding as she burns up the film
stock why can't all of our lists start
like this I don't want to do violent
stuff anymore
number nine Rebecca Romain femme fatale
if there's one argument for keeping
jukeboxes around here it is here Romain
plays a con woman who's assumed the
identity of an identical woman who
committed suicide of course her scheme
is discovered by Antonio Banderas he
just can't help but get involved with
each playing a game with the other
Romain's turns revolve around seduction
in this case dancing for another man
inevitably goes too far and backfires
which she enjoys
[Music]
[Music]
number eight Jessica Biel powder-blue
hey I'll make it up to you in this film
deal plays an exotic dancer named Rose
Johnny who works for the late Patrick
Swayze well I am NOT a [ __ ] were you
then you better learn Johnny dancing in
a private room for Ray Liotta things get
pretty steamy despite the fact that
she's a single mother with a boy in a
coma if that doesn't kill the vibe for
you get this she doesn't know it but
she's dancing for her estranged father
so what he really wants is a hug not a
tug number seven elizabeth berkley
showgirls this dance is brought to you
by a hot young drifter who hitchhiked
her way to Las Vegas to make it as a
working girl well working girl by that
city standards anyway this may be a
relatively standard pole dance but
there's nothing wrong with the classics
hey I hear she also does birthday
parties and bar mitzvahs
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
number six Jennifer Beals Flashdance
in this flick the dancer in question is
an eighteen year old girl with no formal
education who works at a steel mill by
day while strutting her stuff by night
at a local skin bar
her dance gets extra points for being
one of the most artistic who'd have
thought you can make a chair and a
bucket of water so erotic
[Applause]
and I love art
[Music]
number five natalie portman closer
[Music]
nothing screams Academy Award or at
least in this case Academy Award
nomination like a pink wake striptease
this private room scene is unique for
allowing time for deep contemplative
questions about her and her profession
as an exotic dancer all while she works
the clock have you ever desired a
customer of course the real show here is
Clive Owens interrogation which tries to
do what the dance can't do and make her
truly expose herself
tell me something true lying is the most
fun a girl can have without taking our
clothes off but it's better if you do
yeah okay we take that back
the real show here is Natalie Portman
[Music]
number four salma hayek
dogma this striptease
as enjoyed by Jay and Silent Bob
showcases everyone's admiration for
playing schoolgirl complete with thick
glasses thumb-sucking and bubble gum
chewing hilariously the boys put aside
their righteous mission to save the
world so Jake improved to Silent Bob
that he's all man of course being such a
beaut the boys and another group get
into a bit of a bidding war over her
[Music]
well if you enjoined her a serendipity
and you'd love watching her dance with a
snake before she turns into a hideous
vampire this is where I'm tempted to
make a paper bag joke but I'm a
professional so I won't welcome no
thanks I already have a wife number
three Kim Basinger nine and a half weeks
in this film titled after the length of
a relationship between Mickey Rourke and
Kim Basinger a ton of kinky shenanigans
ensue this striptease is different from
the rest because it's literally
featuring two people blinded by lust as
if facing hers not smoking enough Roark
lights one up while Kim works her way
down to her lingerie of course it gets
so steamy they have to take it outside
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
number two Jamie Lee Curtis True Lies
[Music]
in this flick Curtis plays the bored
housewife of Arnold Schwarzenegger who
is secretly a super spy hoping to spice
up their marriage he concoct the scheme
to have her feel like she's playing the
part of a spy sending her on a mission
to pose as a call girl and plant a bug
Arnie watches from the shadows and uses
a tape recorder to hide his identity
instructing kurtis to dance and dance
she does
[Music]
this one makes it so high on the
shortlist for being so unexpected he
still got it
[Music]
number one Demi Moore striptease taking
the top spot on our list is the dance by
the former FBI secretary and divorcee
who takes up stripping to pay her legal
bills in a fight for child custody fun
fact
that's rumer willis for real-life
daughter and what a wholesome
mother-daughter film this is anyhoo as a
stripper working for the eager beaver
Miami strip club she attracts the
attention of none other than Burt
Reynolds
of course he's a congressman and she's
been blackmailed into extracting
information from him while performing
her private show and what what were we
talking about if you just come into
Davey's life good things will happen you
just don't know how much I worship you
how much love our list
I've been easy on you because when I
watch you dance I get a raging boner
which movie strip scene teased you the
most for more testosterone guided top
tens be sure to subscribe to
watchmojo.com if I do come back tomorrow
then can we talk more about my case
don't buy anything you won't know what
you're naked
[Music]
