hey how you doing this last song the new
head coach of the Tottenham Hotspurs and
I'd like to talk to the Queen please my
name is Ted lass so I'm new head coach
for Tottenham Spurs and brought over
here to you know implement my coaching
style footballs football no matter where
you play it yeah grass you got cleats
and you got helmets with masks on
football in the states is my specialty
but they have a different kind of
football over here yeah yeah
Circle them up haven't put on their pads
let's start playing for real they're
wearing their pet coat there's a lot of
a lot of small similarities a team I
coach they're gonna play hard for all
four quarters okay what's that - okay
hams it won't play hard for two halves
now we're gonna play till there's a
winner there's a loser what's that okay
there's a winner a loser or tie you can
tie if you tried to end a a gaming of
time in the United States heck that
might be listed in Revelations as the
cause for the apocalypse yet we have any
goals this season absolutely go and win
a lot of games we're gonna get in the
playoffs
there's no playoffs again my job has got
a lot easier ties and no playoffs
why don't even do this one of the issues
I've had is what tackling was that's not
a tackle it's just sliding around soccer
tackle sir that's how you tackle to
prepare for this job you know read a lot
of books watch a lot of game films but
to be honest with you the best way to
learn how to play this game is to play
this game the square goal second second
stall see I got you those who don't you
don't know what to do there you go just
stop okay it's over for now 15 nothing
huh we're going going remesh yeah they
do things a little bit differently army
to find some of the things they do a
little silly but Pasadena like keep
passing it backwards what's going on
here it's nice to be able to go
backwards and forwards and not have some
ref make a big deal about you explain me
how that was offside no I'm asking you
seriously
explain offside of me ain't no sense
well the first thing I had to do and
getting this job is learn about the
competition we came up with flash card
system in order for me to make American
comparisons to English teams all I had
to do is link what I don't know to what
I dunno Manchester United
super-rich everybody either love them or
hate some Dallas Cowboys Liverpool used
to be great haven't won a title in a
really long time also a Dallas Cowboys
Cardiff City dragons on the crust
was that hot girls nine from Game of
Thrones Khaleesi Khaleesi Manchester
City Jennifer Lawrence West Ham United
pickup trucks because of that training
that I did I guarantee that we're gonna
beat the Cowboys and the Cowboys and
Jennifer Lawrence has there been a
learning curve I would say a little bit
sorry I understand why were you so but
looking out tying these goals are oh the
practice coach coach he knocked that
ball of his head not legal
totally legal points no points no points
why not gotta go in come on Rob you got
get it in there to get three points one
point they got like an application for a
phone I can learn the rules with these
trust exercises who's uh orange Shuster
Gareth Bale as Gareth Bale where he's
from he's from England Wales Wales wait
that's another country yes and no how
many countries are in this country for
but but I'm learning and and I want to
learn these young men I just would not
understand exactly what I was trying to
get him to do guys all I'm looking for
is sixty percent effort four thousand
percent of the time that's a skip skip
like middle girls do not acknowledge
care in the world I'm lucky to be doing
this for a living
everybody's do the robot you got to ride
a few players a little bit harder than
some of the other players blondie you
are killing me John what do you got on
their pants lies what is those three
quarters and I get those in the women's
section John
pick up the ball pick the ball of your
hands that is a violation and an act of
solidarity I spent an entire day not
using my hands out of respect towards
the game and I think that went pretty
well I think it garnered a lot of
respect from the players they appreciate
not only the fact that I could do most
activities without the use of my hands
but that I just tried after a few days
of practice players gaming nicknames
started small but if now they'll chanted
a B every now that's pretty nice what's
the nickname
wanker jenos means I think it just means
great I just like a nice guy like you
know kind heart you know someone that
listens someone gonna push you a wanker
is it someone who did there's a mine
being alone you know likes to sit with
his thoughts well with a new job you got
to anticipate a learning curve I'll tell
you what I'm in Tottenham and I'm here
to stay you can guarantee that once a
here oh no I got fired Premier League is
on NBC and the NBC Sports Network live
on TV online or on the go is there a
third kind of football maybe I could
look into
