so you feel that King Bond was evil man
if they just came and said a man and
killed four people and he bragged about
it he never showed no remorse for his
murder so uh
uh what happened
you're gonna go to jail for battering
him to a police officers me and you also
I got everything thank you very much
we'll we'll take it
if I go home it's Valentine's Day the
stories of the ghost of oblach have come
to hunt rappers and the entire rap
industry today wherever King Von's name
is mentioned not everyone thinks of his
tracks crazy story but took her to the
old the mention of his name makes
rappers quiver and grown men shudder but
not everyone knows why the ghost of
oblach has this effect some Insider
sources who have encountered the ghost
of all black on the streets of Chicago
have agreed to share their experiences
about how he has haunted the streets
Chicago on 6400 South King Drive Chicago
lies the most dangerous block that has
come to be known as oblach including the
Black Disciples and the Gangster
Disciples though black has become a
major name in the rap industry through
the influence of rapper Davon Bennett
AKA King Von where are you from
64th and King Drive Chicago
Illinois Parkway Gods Lake City Toontown
cattle World shiroy Squad Whitey gang
Luna gang stretch gang city of Eck and
get it back gang are some of the names
the infamous oh black has been called
over time but not many know the true
history of how old block got its name
and Status we decided to find out which
block in Chicago has the most shootings
and we discovered it wasn't in Inglewood
or the west side
it is actually the 6400 Block of South
Martin Luther King Drive on the edge of
the Woodlawn Community they're visually
known on every black as Parkway Gardens
located on the 6400 Block of South King
Drive the black became home of some of
the deadliest gangsters affiliated with
the Black Disciples set in Chicago the
low-income apartment complex sits on one
side of the 64th Street with a string of
businesses including an AutoZone a food
mart and the Chicago Crusader newspaper
crowding the other end I didn't make it
seem like we just so bad so dangerous it
makes it like we monsters we just like
normal people we just be children with a
laughing around plan a regular day on
the streets of oblach sees young men
affiliated with gangs hanging on Street
benches and crawling in the shadows of
street corners staring down strangers as
they walk by kids toys are left in the
gardens and attended as mothers every
down the street and pour their kids into
the safety of their homes hundreds of
security cameras are mounted on every
corner of the street turning to oversee
the streets but none of these cameras
have been able to provide evidence for
the gang killings that happened on
oblock
today from here don't come here please
don't if real is he ctor 19 people were
shot on that block it's like decent but
it's like like you just gotta like watch
out you know you guys feel like all the
violent [ __ ] is overhyped in the media
yeah over height yeah but having all
that violence is
not nearly as bad as it is in real life
they think they shoot every day they
shoot like once a month every day
Parkway Gardens got its name old block
after 20 year old OD Perry who lived on
the Block was assassinated on the
streets of Chicago this killer 17 year
old Jakira Barnes AKA K.I a member of
the Rival Street 63rd who was known as
the deadliest hitter on her block K.I
took out OD Perry as a retaliation for
the assassination of her friend chandel
Tuka Gregory who was taken out by Odie
Perry the year 2010 marked the beginning
of the unending gang wars between 63rd
and 64th Street that have claimed
hundreds of lives in the past decade and
it all began after a kid named wooski
who lived on 64th Street decided to be a
member of the Gangster Disciples on the
63rd block the ride Rivals to the 64th
Street Black Disciples insiders have
revealed that wooski was encouraged to
join the Black Disciples The Gang That
was present where he lived the wooski
refused we'll see how you coming
back though
no no it's okay okay
stay angry with
a bit like that because I thought he
read the meetings
failure to be a member of the Black
Disciples subjected him to constant
bullying and ridicule from the gang
members on 64th Street until one fateful
day when wooski pulled the trigger on a
member of the Black Disciples crazy
but not before subscribing to this
channel they say it update on every move
their Ops made by turning on their post
notifications to this channel for all
updates on rappers and the Gang beef the
assassination of reezy in 2010 sparked a
huge gang war between both streets with
several game sets from other streets in
Chicago joining the war such sets like
gyro city taekwon world 600 in Front
Street but when they couldn't take out
wooski they began eliminating members of
the Gangster Disciples who lived on 63rd
Street it was at this time Odie Perry
put out the hit on took
[Music]
camera system
at about 6 45 pm on January 12 2011.
just a few months after the gang wars
began 13 year old John Dale Gregory Tuka
and the last member of the Gangster
Disciples on 63rd Street was
assassinated at a bus stop where he
stood it was believed that OD Perry
carried out this attack on tuka's life
what's up so I am in Inglewood
on the corner of St Lawrence and 63rd
Street I'm at the bus stop we're on
January 12 2011. a young man by the name
of Shondell Gregory better known on the
street as Tuka a member of the Gangster
Disciples was shot and killed
he was standing at this very bus stop uh
when uh some enemies came up and just uh
shot him I believe he died on the way to
the hospital according to police reports
Tuka and two other people were waiting
for a westbound 63rd Street bus when the
gunman walked up and asked everyone if
another bus was coming he didn't walk
behind the bus shelter for the silver
handgun and pulled the trigger at Tuka
took a stagger to a nearby trash can
after the first hit but that didn't stop
Odie from firing at him he hit him three
more times in the back before leaving
Tuka who passed away on the scene
foreign
assassination a series of Revenge
killings happened between the two blocks
until Jakira Barnes took out ODI Perry
the young man responsible for tuka's
passing at about 11 30 on August 10 2011
the day which happened to be tuka's
posthumous birthday Jakira Barnes
allegedly took out OD Perry near the
parkway Gardens Homes at 64th Street
after he sustained the gun wound to the
neck yeah
and watch a user boy he was not with it
it's on two good boy Yo which is a lame
boy what did you come from boy that was
the goofy tomorrow some Christmas I love
Chris boy and the Jeep
bad boy
all throughout 63rd Street okay I was
praised for assassinating Odie Perry but
while they celebrated Odie Perry's
passing was heartbreaking for the Black
Disciples on 64th Street in the bid to
honor holy Berry as their fallen
disciple the parkway Gardens on 64th
Street was named oblach after Odie Perry
she was also seen as quote quote a
killer of many people but she was also
linked to the death of OD if you don't
know OD got killed and that's how old
block was formed although OD Perry's
passing was a victory for 63rd Street it
didn't take long before their most
feared assassin Chicago Barnes was taken
out by the man who has now come to be
known as the ghost of all black king Von
he liked her as a girlfriend yeah he
wanted to be her boyfriend she just felt
like he was trying to set her up and
kill her that's what she told me she's
like I think he's just trying to kill me
he don't like me what's the light it
wasn't long before jakira's death at
about 3 30 pm on April 11 2014 a series
of gang attacks happened across Chicago
which caused the life of 36 people on
the Fateful night one of the people who
passed away was 17 year old Shakira
Barnes who suffered approximately nine
gun wounds before she passed Jakira
Barnes died last month in April she was
17 years old she was killed in the
Woodlawn neighborhood in a shooting and
she was shot multiple times and so the
police thought that she was targeted
that she was assassinated essentially
years after Chicago was assassinated the
police authorities released court
documents that King Vaughn was in fact
the person who pulled the trigger on
that fateful evening on April 11 2014.
but for whatever reason it never made it
to court okay but if you read the actual
document that came up in this Freedom of
Information Act uh uncovered it
basically says that hey the purse who
allegedly killed her was Davon Bennett
AKA King Von the deadliest shooter on no
block the black's most feared gangster
and Grandson are some of the names that
have been used to refer to the rapper
King Von growing up on the streets of
oblach King Vine wasn't like every other
regular gangster he had a pretty decent
childhood and didn't have a lot of money
problems it was decent for me I like
Olympic like that it was regular for me
like you know because I grew up on this
but when I look at other people so I'm
moving around I I see how other people
run up on how they like it like so it'd
probably be hard for them it ain't the
same as I see everybody else but to me
it's regular my mom was there you know
no Daddy step daddy or something
you know regularly going to school
ain't a lot of money but you know still
got love shoes and clothes man ain't too
much but all that changed after King
Vine lost his father to gang violence at
11. in no time King Vine found himself
dabbling in different criminal gang
activities
me when I went I got in trouble early 15
years old like that's all I ain't never
been grown until like right now because
I've been in jail all the times were
really kind of like you know like Angry
to graduate high school
all that so one of the time for me to
step up I was already in jail I was
already in trouble
Street activity
at only 16 years old in 2010 King Vine
was arrested for the first time when
Robert recharges in Chicago the rapper
who was only a teenager then was taken
to juvenile boot camp after his arrest
but he had the charges against him
dropped but that was only the beginning
of the lengthy criminal record that I
waited the rapper in his future life
they locked me out for a robbery armed
robbery on contact this is something you
were able to beat back then right they
dropped the charge they dropped most of
them in game let me go for boot camp
obviously you know to even know what's
going on I just want to get out of jail
get out
but that was your first run yeah that
was the first you've had other run-ins
since then yeah yeah what were some of
the other things you ended up getting in
trouble for
um by 2012 King bonds arrested charges
toppled and he found himself locked up
for unlawful firearm possession on
November 21st 2012 King Vine who had
just turned 18 was arrested as an adult
with a bond set at 75 000 King Biden
continued to get in trouble until he
caught his biggest charge after taking
out Malcolm Stuckey during a gang hit in
2014. on May 29th 2014 King Bond was at
a party at 5722 South LaSalle Street a
two-story house divided into three
Apartments situated a couple of blocks
east of Interstate 94. this location was
only three miles straight west of the
Museum of Science and Industry where a
certain Malcolm Stuckey work Stuckey had
also been invited to this party for King
Von alongside other members of the Black
Disciples was in attendance according to
the hosts of the party laminda Jones
King Vine who had been there long before
Stucky arrived and started trouble with
some rival gang members who he met at
the party
Avon came to my son's birthday party on
that day I knew how he moved we all know
how these kids on these streets move but
we parents can't really do anything but
when I saw him stand down the kids from
the other block said to him don't start
no mess in my house and he laughed as he
said to me I'm not on that after saying
that to me he smiled and left the party
I didn't even know when he returned oh
hell it broke loose after King Vine
returned to the party as he showed up
with a Smith and Wesson just as king
Bond returned Malcolm Stucky drove into
the location in the burgundy Pontiac
Grand Prix and this was where his fate
crossed with the ghost of oblach King
Vine and his associate microwave showed
up at a basketball court just across the
street from the party or Stucky and some
partygoers were playing a game before
returning to the house to eat the food
lamita Jones Was preparing Court playing
a game of b-ball when two men pulled up
from the alley behind the house it all
happened in a Flash you know Malcolm
just stepped aside to smoke a cigar and
the next we heard was the rivals spotted
at the party earlier saw him first and
decided to open fire on him and Michael
Wade Von open fire on his rival and
chased him down the south street where
the party was going on and the crowd saw
what had gone down at the time King Von
and Wade realized what happened Stucky
had been Gravely wounded in the
crossfire and another man had been
injured in the foot Stuckey passed away
on the Spot while still dressed in his
work uniform it was the murder of
Malcolm Stuckey that landed King bond in
jail where he served his sentence of
three and a half years
I got charged with it um when I was 19.
2014 when I was 19 years old and they
let me out when I was like what 23.
so you were locked up for
three four years
at that time three and a half years
but before that you know I was locked up
for 15 months and then before that 14
months just really my whole teenager at
the king van served his sentence Chicago
Rapper Lil Durk took him under his wings
to help him build a rap career being
under little Dirk King Vine began to
make a name for himself by telling his
story through rap he told the story of
Roblox to gang activities the people
he's allegedly assassinated the types of
weapons he carried and how life was on
the streets of Chicago all right man yo
Dirk introduce this guy right here I
don't know who he is uh King Von I'm
saying dehat is in Chicago yes for sure
going crazy okay he's OTF the show yes
man now what's going on with you I'm
vibing man just came by and continue to
spread his story through his music until
he was taken out on that faithful night
of November 6 2020. on the tragic night
of November 6 2020 King Vine went out
partying at the Monaco hookah lounge in
Atlanta when the fight broke out between
his group an Affiliates a rapper NBA
young boy including condo Rondo and
Little Tim according to anxiety
resources King Vine had picked a fight
with NBA young boys Affiliates because
of the competition between the rappers
fabric was caught in a fight with cuando
Rondo and his associates but no one
really knows how things got really bad
that led to King Bond's assassination
not even Robert guando Rondo who was
directly involved while narrating the
events of that fateful night cuando
Rondo said my brother said no Tim told
me lil bro I'm not about to let you sit
in no car and go to sleep cuando
explains I'm about to sit in here and
roll up but the two brothers had no idea
how the night was going to play out for
them The Insider sources believed that
King Vine only attacked the 4kt guys
because of their affiliation with the
rapper NBA youngboy an interview of King
Vine barely 24 hours before he was
assassinated was proof that the rapper
did in fact have issues with NBA young
boy on November 5th 2020 just the day
before the tragic passing of King van he
sat for an interview with DJ academics
where he revealed the true status of his
relationship with 4K trade rapper NBA
young boy although King Von he didn't
have any issues with NBA young boy he
also said that there are issues would
only relate to women and internet
speculation among their fans people told
me people told me you and young boy was
beefing or something like that
what happened but what's going on with
you man they be saying that like it's
like we got the same interests
and yeah you know how the internet to
try to make it
don't tell me I got problems over girls
no it's the internet game it's the it's
the you know they try to make it like
that because it's the internet you see
what I'm saying and then and then you
know how females just females are trying
to make it like that it remains a
mystery whether King Vine was being
truthful with DJ academics at the time
as further investigations have shown
that King bond has previously called out
NBA young boy for his lyrics while
listening to NBA young boys track play
with us on Instagram live King was heard
saying in a singing song way you got cop
and yo raps King Vines passing was a
hard pill for his family and friends
mostly old black and OTF members many of
them shared their grief over his loss on
social media including OTF leader Lil
Durk Lil Durk found out about King Vines
passing while on an Instagram live video
fans began making comments about the
fight at the club and about how King Von
passed away Dirk immediately left the
Instagram live video and the next time
he was heard from he posted a tribute to
King Von on his Instagram page posting a
picture of King vine on his Instagram
page though Dirk reporting the post
captions between gone I love you Baby
Bro Leroy if the king Vine passed away
the people of all black showed their
love for him by creating a mural of the
rapper on the walls of oblach rapper
King Von lives on in this mural across
from Parkway Gardens in Woodlawn where
he grew up around his neck there's an
old Block Chain a nickname for this
neighborhood and the name of the album
released shortly before his murder in
Atlanta last year even after the bad
thing of Lil Durk NBA young boy did not
address the situation with King Von he
only went on to this King vine on his
track bring the hook where he wrapped oh
lock back it rolled up murder what they
told us Atlanta boy gets older the
lyrics of NBA young boys track caught
the attention of gangsters and members
of oblach who share their videos showing
them reacting to NBA young boy's home
bringing the hook
nobody else
the old black reaction Clips showed
several people gathered on the streets
of oblach with King Vines track playing
in the background while they burned
flags and clothes colored green the
color green is significant to rapper NBA
young boy rapper Lil Durk also shared a
reaction to NBA young boys diss track
after he came across it Lil Durk she had
a picture of himself sitting next to a
canvas of King Vine from his welcome to
Old Black album Lil Dirk wrote in the
caption of the post don't claim it if
you ain't do it you still it though durg
has continued to face backlash from fans
of King Von who have accused him of not
avenging the death to the ghost of oh
black Benz of King Vine have encouraged
Little Dirk to slide for Von but with
little dark ever slide for Von and with
the ghost of oh black slide for a little
Dirk if the tables were turned
