did you ever talk about the dri
documentary publicly is that something
that yeah I mean we can talk about it um
I never it's never been released
publicly that's that's why I wanted to
talk about it because you showed me and
Jimmy yeah I showed it to you guys you
saw the like what was the final cut yeah
in South Africa it's great movie Heavy
movie wild wild wild documentary the
story of the documentary is I started
making a movie about David who was you
know one of my dearest friends um about
just his rise which was UN like anything
I'd ever experienced and then you know
this article came out about some like
really terrible things that happened on
the set of one of his videos things that
he didn't do but one of his co-stars did
one of the guys dirty Dom real scumbag
was in his videos um you know he
assaulted this young girl in one of his
videos and this story came out and just
really torpedoed his
career necessarily this is a horrible
thing that happened and it shined light
on really the negative sides of of what
his career had been been up until then
and I was there and I didn't know that
that was coming so I captured all of
that and it was really seeing like the
collapse of a career in real time and
that's what the movie was about was
about sort of how he dealt with that
about how that story came to light what
it meant to the people involved how it
affected their lives um and it was a
really like I think a really Monumental
piece of documentary film making and we
pred at the South by Southwest Film
Festival um very well reviewed like even
by super skeptical reviewers like
Variety in LA Times and a lot of them
would be like I didn't want to watch a
movie made by a YouTuber like I don't
give a [ __ ] but it turns out this is a
very like there were a lot of reviews
that said it was impartial which was all
that I was going for I didn't want
people to think I was raah raing him and
I didn't want people to think that I was
[ __ ] on him you know I'm not in it
you've seen it you know I'm not it's not
about me and it's a movie it's a piece
I'm really proud of um and like we had
some really interesting distribution
opportunities that kind of like came and
went and weren't dealt with well and
then like very recently and I don't know
how to say this without causing a bunch
of trouble like
very very recently we had a very very
interested party that was the perfect
place to distribute it and it fell apart
at the 9th hour because of political
reasons I believe because of political
reasons that had nothing to do with me
or the movie itself but somebody
involved with selling it had was fired
from his job at the last minute it kind
of put us in a compromised position I
don't know that that's why the sale
didn't go through but it's one of these
things and like
I think I use as an excuse these third-
party factors for why it didn't get
distribution for why it's not out there
but I think the real reason is like
there's some part of me that like
doesn't want to release it like I have a
YouTube channel I was going to say why
10 million viewers I put it out there do
you think the the ball has rolled to far
I think it's probably more relevant now
than ever really um I don't I don't know
I feel weird about it you know I feel
weird about it because the impact it had
on my relationship with David which I
wasn't naive to like my goal that was
just to sort of tell the truth and give
him an opportunity to tell his truth
which I believe he did but um you know I
think that there was some expectation
that the movie might protect him and
instead I think that movie was just a
very honest view of what happened and um
you know like he you know he and I
haven't really spoken since then and
that was very that's very I knew that
was going to happen but I still didn't I
don't deal with that well there's not
many people in this world that I like
love and I really love David do and I'm
really conflicted about that
so all this just to say that like I
think my own sort of [ __ ] up emotions
about it um have had a negative impact
on my willingness to let that
documentary be seen and look I'm not
it's not like I I'm trying to protect
him I think there's a lot of Truth in
that movie um you know maybe there's
other also some insecurity about it
which is just that like I think it is a
very powerful movie and like I like
making fun this is a cop out I like
making fun YouTube videos I hate [ __ ]
dealing with conflict in M I'm not
afraid of it I made a video 3 weeks ago
called Jew J about what it means to be a
Jew and like you know the kind of
conflict that AR but like I'm I'm not
afraid of conflict but in this
particular case it's like it's not about
me and I feel like like I don't know
I've stuck my head into something like
what I always say and this is a [ __ ]
cop out and I'm embarrassed to be saying
this but it is the truth is like I never
signed up to make that movie I wanted to
make a fun movie about this kid I love
named David do and his success and then
all this [ __ ] came up that was
horrifying horrifying to me and I felt
an obligation to the world to to tell
the truth and I think this movie did
that and then at the end of that I too
was just
like who am I to be this like why do I
have to be the Arbiter here like the
magnifying glass for does it does it
cover any any of the Jeff stuff or is it
or is a little bit it touches on that
but again I don't Jeff speaks for Jeff
in that um in that part of the narrative
David speaks for David and that part of
the narrative um is there any Grand
Revelations or is it just having a an
eye a real eye on it I think I think the
what the movie is at the end of the day
is it shows what happens when tremendous
responsibility is bestowed on
individuals that are unaccustomed to
that kind of responsibility in a world
that has yet figured out how to deal
with that kind of responsibility I think
there are parallels there with like if
you think of what rock and roll was in
the' 60s that we're only learning about
now like these rock stars that are
dating underage women that are wreaking
all this Havoc all over the world with
groupes and drugs and death and suicide
and all of this gnarliness just happened
then because nobody was looking nobody
was paying attention and I think that
the YouTube world it's now finding some
some shape and some structure but if you
remember when we were coming up like
it's like no one's looking over our
shoulders I thank God that I was 35 when
I blew up on YouTube but what were you
were you 20 21 yeah like no one's
looking over Logan's shoulder no one no
one there to be like hey man this isn't
how you should do things or let's slow
down let's think about what we're doing
here that's why I brought Mike in it's
no seriously it's why I brought Mike in
I I I needed an older brother to who has
lived a little bit of life to be like yo
this is not you're not this isn't the
way to go bro you need you need help you
need to Pivot immediately and and I
think David's a product of that it's not
an excuse for the the things that
happened ultimately you are respons for
what Happ and this is an apology for him
but I do think he was he was part of
that it's like you you have this hubris
you are successful because of you no one
ever told you what to do and despite
that or because of that you made your
own decisions and those decisions LED
you to such a profound success why would
you ever do anything but say [ __ ] the
world I'm going to listen to me but that
is the very definition of hubris like
that you will crash into the wall at
full speed if you do that and there's a
million stories maybe not million but
you and I probably sit here and come up
with 12 names that that is exactly
what's happened to and I think he was
one of those stories um and I think
because of my personal relationship and
my the just my the int intimacy level I
have with the characters involved it
left me feeling strange um and I will
say like part of the shame I have in
admitting that is that like it does
reveal things for the victims the real
victims um and David Do's not a victim
at all he's not a victim Natalie's not a
victim um but there are victims in this
story um they don't get to have their
story told because of my insecurities
because of my cowardice and not wanting
to put that video out and I'm I'm hyper
conflicted because of that hey guys if
you like that clip hit the Subscribe
button and if you want to see more zany
Clips click the video right here
