oh my
ah
Oh
there's just so many times where you
question can I keep going and rowing
across the Atlantic Ocean I've been
alone at sea I've never seen another
human for 55 days I learned that over a
billion people didn't have something
that I've always taken for granted and
that's clean safe drinking water I think
people are very surprised in the
beginning when they realized is such a
my store in my background being a young
woman but was an immigrant this
triggered a law that through many
hardships emotionally culturally they
could actually do something like this
yessuh was mainly for kids in the
community and Pearson to have a mentor
to have someone that they can look up to
and you're like I want to be like them
divano saucony Okada Terry stato teen
yapalim Anana at osita yo Tommy se
sienta este ano Camaro chica que me
natura cannot Oh montez magic anagha
kuya pari test no divine impacto got
anoka a no justo al udeid I'm Abbas Rana
atoka son teases me nahi tokoto a cigar
yo Tommy say yo hace una dama hey
the first time my name was up in lights
I was so amazed by it I spent forever
just staring it I'm passionate about the
world that we live in but I'm also
passionate about telling the different
story I write plays about young kids who
live on estates in an urban culture and
usually stories from those backgrounds
are always negative stories and so in a
sense I am trying to change the world
because I want people to see that they
there were different stories that come
from those environments I knew when I
was younger what I enjoyed I knew I had
a and a passion had a talent I had to
add ambition I think I had a dream to
make a difference my products that I've
created are all really simple and so
it's that simple technology that where
we kind of take a step back and we allow
developing countries to take a step
forward I've got this kind of dream that
I want to continue developing more
products that help people simple
products that you know don't don't have
to be some kind of science genius or
some engineering genius to soul
I don't think I'm ever ever going to get
used to what you see when you go to
India now when you're on the streets and
you see the poverty having emerged as
effectually so much we served up a
quarter of a million hot meal was in
India there are two large areas that are
no longer hungry because of this tiny
little company that I formed in the UK I
was really fortunate that had somebody
who had sparked my interest and who
helped me find my talent and my passion
we think of ourselves like the heroes
the mentors would go there and we
delivering service we're helping others
but through experiences to working with
people through to being with people I
realize is a two-way street they're
changing my life as much as them between
two layers every kid has a time in life
when they questioned their identity and
that's really important to me because I
think that once you figured out who you
are that's when you even chase for your
dreams or you don't y su casa vou la
zona de tanto que con este como de texte
obata in Normandy quiero dar otomo tetas
caught oh god ah fook Aeneas and Oro y
solo si si si doctora takeda sigatoka
i'ma so no taco hinari yo una de binary
Oh sir Denis t'aime OU une Tony sonu
sood egan I otay um we're gray sometimes
one breath was all I can focus on
really the only way to do something like
this is to take it one step at a time
it's easy to stop it's easy to give up
and say okay this isn't for me because
it's not working out at the moment when
you realize that this isn't for me is
the moment when it it's just your turn
but something's trying to hold you back
I've got a voice that I want everyone to
hear what I've got to say because I want
to share it i want to encourage anybody
across the world you to really believe
in themselves as a young person that
they can actually do something to make a
real difference good work does happen in
this world but please don't wait for
someone else to do it you know you gotta
look in the mirror at the end of the day
and try and make sure that it's you
you
