this is Williston North
Dakota a modern-day Boom
Town beneath these streets lies a 100
billion barrels of oil and now this
little town is the epicenter of one of
the biggest oil booms in American
[Music]
history as millions of people lost their
jobs in the recession oil companies in
North Dakota were starred for
workers over the last 4 years more than
15,000 people have packed their cars and
set out for America's latest oil rush
with only 1% unemployment and a rapidly
expanding
population this drowsy Prairie town has
just been launched into the 21st
[Music]
century
Williston is located on the western edge
of North Dakota 2 miles underground sits
the bachan formation a deposit of crude
oil the size of West
Virginia two new inventions hydr
fracking and horizontal drilling have
given oil companies new access to the
bachan and Unleashed a drilling frenzy
2,000 new wells are going in this year
and when fully developed an estimated
40,000 Wells could cover the region
drillings spread faster than anyone
expected but who's been responsible for
guiding Williston through the
boom I don't believe we have made any
major mistakes as a
community Ward's been mayor for over 17
years the entire boom has happened under
his watch and as you might expect he
sees it as a blessing I had a dream from
early on that someday we would be the
best little city in America and that's
still my goal and dream now are we there
yet no we're not there yet but I think
we're closer than we were 15 or 18 years
ago this is an area that was settled by
homesteaders hardworking people cared
about their neighbor good work ethic we
want the new people who come here to
pick up on that and and still be people
of character who care about their
neighbor and are good
[Music]
citizens we were obviously looking
forward to increased oil activity I
don't think anybody dreamed that it
would happen as rapidly as it has or
have as great an impact as it has and so
that's where it's been a challenge but
there's just there's an intensity here
that exists only in Williston North
Dakota and that intensity is exemplified
by the town's rig studded Horizon
Williston has welcomed the explosion of
big oil but is there a limit to their
Hospitality what's off limits do you
feel for
[Music]
drilling man I don't know that I can
answer that question um let me think for
a second about that clearly local
government won't restrict drilling so
how does the average will Estonian feel
about having their Town invaded by Big
Oil everything's lacking but on the
other hand our budget's got 2 billion a
year coming in off oil tax that nobody
really did anything for and it's kicking
ass like I've had guys here I work for
that are major millionaires they still
go to work every day cuz that's what
they do and I've come to realize is they
don't fit on a beach you take a
75-year-old or we in the cowboy boots
ber shorts and a hat it's not vacation
this is a very conservative State you
know and everything is very conservative
and don't spend it until 5 years later I
mean like our city commission we had was
great when it was still a small town and
you had small town matters but then I
mean this isn't the little small town
that it used to be it's good the rapid
growth has strained all of williston's
Public Services more people means more
crime and the police find themselves
struggling to keep up looked just like
the Batmobile like for real and it was
swerving all over the road and it was
feeding and so when he pulled them over
the guy actually got out of the vehicle
and had the Batman outfit on we kind of
call it like a mini Vegas officers are
getting DUI crashes at 9:00 a.m. on a
Sunday morning as well as Wednesday
afternoon during lunch the boom hit so
fast that the city's still playing catch
up so we have a lot of people getting
off the bus that come to the police
station and ask well where's your
Salvation Army where's your churches
that let people stay there and there
really is nowhere to
stay we even had an instance where there
was a lady couldn't figure out why her
heat wasn't working and when they came
to fix it they pulled the skirting off
and there was a family living underneath
their trailer if I'm having a really bad
day or I think about the problems in my
life and I come to work I feel
normal while the town scrambles to catch
up to the boom workers moving to
Williston face their own set of
challenges I chill I smoke fake
weed and I play video games this is
Tommy it's noon on his day off and he's
wasted back in Michigan I can buy a can
of smoked oysters for
9 here it's $140 something no I'm never
happy that I came out here but there's
money here any of the bad stories you
hear about Willis in North Dakota they
aren't the locals they're people that
have come here to work if you ask me if
I have a cigarette for you and I have a
full pack and I tell
you I don't have a cigarette for you
what does that
[Music]
mean I don't want to live in North
Dakota it's flat it's dirty it's dusty
they got rough Winters they got rough
Summers I mean out of all the places in
America North Dakota is probably one of
the godforsaken places I'd ever want to
live
I've missed my birthday I missed my
wife's birthday school's going to start
on the 5th and I'm going to miss the
first day of school for my kitten
Gardener I'd rather assure they have a
home to live in and their bills are paid
rather than being there for the
moments it's responsibility I
guess because there's nowhere to live
temporary housing developments for Oil
Workers have sprung up all over North
Dakota these man camps are filled with
men who depend on Big Oil whether or not
they support the
industry I'm making real good money most
money I ever made in my life I'm blessed
place to stay place to eat can't be more
satisfied I got into it in my 20s and
I'm in my 50s now been married 32 years
but she's used to me working I talk to
her every night we do the Skype and that
kind of stuff so we can see each other
people bow down to it cuz oil is what
makes the money you know but I'm just
I'm different man you know I I don't I
don't I hate it I'm not going to be here
alone our government right now is kind
of anti oil blocking all their permits
and stuff like that on federal lands
which is stupid but that's just my
opinion it's bad for everybody it kills
everybody everybody in my family I know
is eat up with lung cancer and stuff
like that from working in the oilfield
you know I think the people that are
against it is uh a minority of people
it's a hard living think twice about it
and go to college and get some kind of
degree where you don't have to work it
like this you know they're drilling
safer than they ever had so there's no
reason not to drill why do you work in
oil all I can do to make money it sucks
you
know the small town lifestyle that once
defined Williston is gone and high rents
are chasing out many elderly residents
who no longer recognize the town they
grew up in we had a black [ __ ] spaniel
who my father rescued
and what do he name him
[ __ ] not realizing that there was
anything
remotely politically uncorrect about
that or that it revealed any
Prejudice
uh you need to learn those changes my
name is Debbie Hayden and I've lived
here for 57 years I was born born and
raised in Williston it's not easy for
that we golden oldies because we're
leaving North Dakota in dropes we can't
afford the rent anymore the building
owner gets offered a buy out kicks
everybody out and what was a $500
apartment is now 2,000
or500 and I think a lot of the local
towns people we're almost in a State of
Shock Williston is still called
Williston but it's not our hometown
anymore
[Music]
oil work is a young man's game many will
stack cash and return home but the new
Williston will be shaped by a generation
of workers who choose to stay and build
a new life here I've been out here about
3 weeks something like that yeah I
thought it was going to be hell like
North Dakota what the [ __ ] is in North
Dakota besides oil this is going to suck
but then um there actually is cute
little girls running around here and
there's a college here I mean it's just
a normal town that has a bunch of oil
dudes here mean know I'm 24 I realized
if I can grind this out and actually uh
you know like just keep my head down to
the Grind Stone just keep doing it I
mean I can actually see a career in this
it's weird I got here and I found out
within a couple days
uh that my great-grandfather's from here
so I just
uh I think it's cool that I'm here we
expected Williston to be overrun with
brawling rough necks corporate interests
and America's jobless the reality
however is less
Sensational the boom has created
problems but the town is not spinning
out of
control what's obvious is that the
changes are
irreversible old Williston is gone and
no one knows what will take its
place but so long as oil companies are
turning a profit Williston will remain a
Boom
[Music]
Town I am
record oh jeez excuse
me
eler
