at a little past three in the morning on
November 29 1944 the American submarine
USS archerfish fired six Torpedoes and
sank the 71 000 ton Japanese super
carrier shinano this is the
extraordinary story of how a single
Submarine skippered by a then
unremarkable Captain claimed the largest
warship then afloat
the events that led to the attack and
sinking of shenano began years earlier
she was originally planned as the third
ship in Japan's Yamato class of enormous
battleships but after the disastrous
Battle of Midway in 1942 it was decided
by the Japanese Navy to convert shinano
into an aircraft carrier while she was
still under construction to be completed
in early 1945.
the work to complete shenano as what
would be the largest carrier ever to put
to Sea were extensive
once finished her colossal Hangar would
host up to 170 planes allowing the ship
to act as a central hub for the
maintenance and support of an entire
fleet aircraft
it was a hugely ambitious and Powerful
design and one that the Japanese Navy
got more and more desperate for as the
war situation declined through 1944.
in need of something to change the tide
the completion date Fortunato was rushed
forward to November 1944. this greatly
shortened deadline required a furious
effort from the workers at Yokosuka
Naval Shipyard and it was made even more
frantic when the first USB 29 bombers
began to overfly the Japanese Mainland
on reconnaissance missions
the Commerce war against Japan was
entering its final ruthlessly
destructive phase and the Japanese Navy
soon became concerned that shanana would
be spotted from the air and targeted
with bombing raids
they were therefore Keen to move the
carrier to an Anchorage that was less
exposed to American attacks the carrier
was rushed out for Builders trials on
November 11th and then hastily
commissioned into the Imperial Navy a
week later the ship was ordered to leave
Yokosuka on November 28th to head for a
safer Anchorage at curay in the Inland
sea but the carrier's inaugural Skipper
Captain toshio Abe was deeply concerned
at the state of his ship he requested a
delay to its departure as shinano only
had eight of her 12 boilers operational
and had not yet been able to carry out a
whole host of tests to check that each
compartment really was fully airtight
the request was bluntly refused with the
risk from air attacks if the carrier
remained at Yokosuka any longer deemed
to be too high
and so the aircraft carrier shinano left
port for her maiden voyage on the
afternoon of November 28 1944.
she was escorted by the kagaro-class
Destroyers isakaze hamakaze and yukikaze
there were more than two and a half
thousand people on board including 300
civilian workers who were still
completing parts of the ship
it was a risky Voyage no air cover was
available for schnanno so Captain Abe
had been forced to try and make the
passage to curate at night raising the
prospect of an attack by American
submarines
with a third of her boilers out of
action shinano could only steam at a
reduced speed of 20 knots and so she was
more vulnerable than usual to submarine
attack
by Nightfall the Japanese flotilla was
clear of Tokyo bay and had to turn to
the Southwest beginning a zigzag pattern
that would take them towards the Inland
sea
at about the same time the American
submarine archerfish was surfacing after
another day spent beneath the waves
its Captain was commander Joseph Enright
who was on his first war Patrol with the
archerfish
described by the historian clay Blair as
a cautious and uncertain Skipper more
than a year earlier Enright had asked to
be relieved from command of the USS Dace
after losing confidence in his own
abilities now though he was back at Sea
with a fresh submarine and A Renewed
determination
at 8 50 PM archerfish's radar picked up
a massive contact 22 kilometers to the
north
before too long it was visible on the
horizon as an aircraft carrier though
unlike any other scene before
this was a huge potential prize and
Enright was determined not to let it
slip through his fingers so he
authorized the regular use of his boat's
radar to be sure of his Target's
location at all times as he tried to
maneuver into an attack position
abortionano the regular emissions from
archerfish's radar could be heard loud
and clear but Captain Abe was not unduly
concerned alone submarine was not in his
mind a threat only a wolf pack of
multiple submarines attacking
simultaneously could pose a serious
danger to such a huge ship so at 10 45
PM when the Destroyer isakaze broke her
way to close down on the submarine that
was shadowing the group Captain Abe
quickly ordered it back into position he
did not want his escorts being drawn
away by a submarine acting as bait and
leaving the carrier exposed to attack by
other lurking American boats
determined to wrong foot the wolf pack
he was expecting at 11 PM are they
ordered a turn to the south at 20 knots
away from the enemy submarine Enright
pushed archerfish's engine to its
absolute maximum but the submarine could
only get to 19 knots and by half past 11
visual contact was lost with the
Japanese carrier
unable to keep up a frustrated Commander
Enright decided instead to keep on his
boat's current course hoping to be in a
better position if the carrier
eventually turned back northwards
at 11 40 shenano obliged changing course
to steam Due West after an engine fault
developed on board which cut her top
speed to 18 knots slower now than what
artifice was achieving
Captain Abe was Keen now to make
progress towards his ship's destination
but once the carrier swung West it did
not take long for archerfish to regain
contact
by this stage the boat was south of
shinano and could now turn swiftly to
stalk the carrier from this direction
as archerfish was now traveling faster
than the Japanese ship it slowly pulled
ahead positioning itself in an ideal
attack position if shanano came back to
her original course of 210 degrees
Commander Enright and his crew had no
idea what the Japanese ship's eventual
destination was so all they could do was
wait and hope unable to get any closer
on the surface without being spotted
again
the hours ticked by and shinano remained
on her Westerly course
frustrated at 2 41 am Enright sent off a
report to the Pacific Fleet at Pearl
Harbor giving the carrier's position and
course
shanana picked up this transmission a
minute later and it spooked the Japanese
skipper Captain rbe guessed that it was
a message on the commander of the wolf
pack of submarines he was convinced of
stalking the carrier and that other subs
would now be lining up ahead of him for
an attack
he quickly decided to change course and
believing it more likely that hostile
submarines would be lurking closer to
the coast to the north decided to turn
the other way and so at 2 56 am captain
Abe ordered shinano to turn to the
Southwest
watching from his colleague Tower seven
and a half miles away Commander Enright
was stunned the Japanese carrier had
turned obligingly onto the precise
bearing he had hoped and was now coming
straight for them
unable to believe his luck the American
Skipper took his boat across the
carrier's new track and swung it around
lining up for an attack on chinano's
starboard side as the 70 000 ton vessel
passed by
at 306 the submarine dived something
that the carrier was immediately aware
of as the radar Transmissions they had
been hearing for the last four hours
suddenly ceased this was a sign an
attack was imminent
seeking to throw them off Captain Abe
ordered a further changing course at 3
10 round to 180 degrees due south
by 313 shenano was just three kilometers
from the submerged archerfish which was
picking its way past the escort screen
determined to press home his attack
Enright stayed on his course even as one
of the escorts passed directly over his
boat without realizing he was there with
barely 10 feet of clearance between them
as the propellers receded Commander
Enright wasted no time he took one more
look through the Periscope and fired six
Torpedoes of the Japanese carrier in
front of him before descending rapidly
to 400 feet and getting as far away as
possible it was 3 15 am
the mark 14 Torpedoes raced over the now
very short distance to the Japanese
aircraft carrier 317 as shenano was
completing her turn to the South the
Torpedoes reached their Target's
starboard side
there were four large explosions as
two-thirds of the American Torpedoes
found their targets
the enormous carrier shuddered and it
did not take long for Captain Abe on the
bridge to realize they had been
torpedoed it was a serious development
but four torpedo hits should not in
theory lead to the loss of Abe's ship
shinano was a colossal vessel with
sophisticated armor and anti-torpedo
bulges below the waterline it had taken
19 Torpedoes and 17 bombs to sanctiono's
sistership Musashi the previous month at
Leyte golf
Captain makami these ship's second in
command soon took control of the damage
response from the number one damage
control center located in the carriers
Island initial reports were not good
mikami discovered there had been four
torpedo hits three of which were inside
the crucial Citadel of the ship where
the most important machinery and
magazines were positioned and protected
by better armor at each impact site the
Torpedoes though had punched right
through shedano's torpedo protection
where it was thinner just a few feet
below the surface the result was
catastrophic damage
at the stern storage units and an empty
aviation fuel tank have been blown open
rapidly filling with water inside the
Citadel turbine room 3 had also flooded
immediately along with Boiler Room 3 and
adjoining oil tank and the air
compressor room with significant loss of
life
as water rushed into the ship it began
to steadily list to starboard first to
five and then swiftly to 10 degrees
in the hydraulic pump room who informed
him that 3 000 tons of water was being
pumped into the port bilges to try and
counteract the growing list but that it
didn't seem to be working
it was now past 4 AM and the list was up
to 13 degrees
in the bowels of the ship Lieutenant
Commander mayura the engineering watch
officer was grappling with a situation
that was rapidly getting out of control
the initial torpedo hits were bad enough
but janano was still steaming at her
maximum speed of 18 knots as Captain Abe
tried to avoid any further hits from
other lurking submarines this put a huge
amount of stress on the already weakened
Hull and bulkheads the length of the
ship were battling under the pressure
next to the already flooded areas water
was pouring through ill-fitting doors
and rivets compromising boiler rooms one
and seven fatally
by 5 AM extensive flooding was now
starting to slow the carrier's speed as
the list steadily increased to 15 then
18 and by 6 AM 20 degrees
the ship had now healed so far over that
the water intake on the port side were
above the water line meaning the crew
could no longer counter flood on that
side shortly afterwards the ship's
remaining boilers began to shut down as
the fresh water supply failed shinano's
speed dropped to less than 10 knots the
starboard hydraulic pump room began to
fill with water and Lieutenant inada
found he and his crew trapped with
little Prospect of rescue
meanwhile on the bridge captain arbe now
appreciated the serious danger his ship
was in he ordered a course change to 300
to Simply head for the closest bit of
land he could and try and Beach the
carrier in shallow water
by now the sun was up and shinano had
traveled about 36 miles since the
torpedo impacts but at a steadily
slowing speed
the situation below decks was becoming
incredibly dangerous
engine room one had also now flooded
along with Boiler Room one
in a desperate attempt to ride the ship
at 8am Captain Abe ordered the
deliberate counter flooding of all three
boiler rooms on the port side this
provided temporary relief to the list
but with water continuing to pour in it
wasn't enough to save the carrier
at 8 30 the starboard hydraulic pump
room flooded completely
shortly before the waters overcame him
Lieutenant inada addressed the bridge
crew through a voice pipe I'm going
before you and I will pray for shinano
and her company
an hour later it was clear to everyone
that shenano was going to sink
on the bridge ensign's shoulder was
dispatched to order the crew in the
steering station who had been manually
operating these ship's Rudder Machinery
to leave their posts and head topside
one of those rescued by shoda was 16
year old Seaman ishi who would go on to
survive the sinking
more than a thousand crew were now on
the flight deck Clinging On as the ever
increasing list once again went past 20
degrees and the water began to lap at
the bottom of the island
a 1018 Captain arbe unable to bring
himself to issue an abandoned ship order
simply addressed his crew to say you are
all released from Duty save yourselves
shinano finally went down at 10 55 a.m
with Captain arbe and other officers
going down with the ship
three escorting destroyers did their
best to pick up survivors for several
hours but at 2PM they cooled off their
operations
of
2515 people on board that day
1455 died in the sinking
as shinano sank beneath the waves her
attacker made a clean getaway archerfish
returned to Guam at the end of her
patrol on December 15 1944.
after initial skepticism of Commander
enright's claim Archer fish was
eventually credited with sinking an
aircraft carrier of between 59 and 72
000 tons depending on which source you
take
whatever the size it made it not only
the largest ship ever sunk by a
submarine it also made enrights Patrol
the most successful by U.S submarine by
tonnage of the entire War
on the Japanese side the loss of shinano
was a devastating blow to plan to mount
a fight back against the Allies so as
not to harm morale its loss was kept top
secret for months with the survivors
effectively interned near curay away
from the public
an inquiry was convened under Vice
abrogenichi makawa which essentially
found that so many mistakes have been
made by so many people that it was
fruitless to assign blame
poor decision making by Captain Abe had
combined with shoddy build quality
inadequate torpedo protection and
inexperienced crew and sheer bad luck to
create a perfect storm that sent a 71
000 ton supercarrier to the bottom of
the Pacific Ocean
foreign
[Music]
[Music]
