[Music]
[Music]
welcome to the land of beauty and
incredible contrast Corbett Tiger
Reserve is located in the rugged
Himalayan foothills in the districts of
Almora
Nana Tao and particle pal of Uttarakhand
state India it was established in the
year 1936 as Haley National Park to
predict the endangered Bengal tiger
Corbett Tiger Reserve has 110 species of
trees 51 species of shrubs and over 33
species of bamboo and grass this unique
paradise is spread over 1,200 88.3 2
square kilometers
it is India's oldest and richest
treasure trove of the wild there are no
boundaries and borders there is a
luminous spacious energy which flows and
there is no distance between this
essence and us it fosters friendship
between man and the wild various species
of parakeets are found in jungle like
Alexandrine parakeet rose ringed
parakeet plum headed parakeet and red
breasted parakeet
[Music]
[Music]
parakeets take two holes in the trunk of
trees to nest their legs this brightly
colored bird is very intelligent and
remains very alert from predators such
as snakes
it's very prolific in breeding presence
of otters in the Ram Ganga river clearly
signifies that this river is free from
pollution they are shy and have elusive
habits rom Ganga river is the home of
descendants of the prehistoric reptiles
such as the Korean and the mugger Jim
Corvette is one of the richest polled
regions of India housing almost 600
species please include both local as
well as exotic migratory birds
[Music]
the fishing Kingfisher with its bright
plumage is a visual delight it is one of
the most common sightings it soups down
from butch to trade some of the birds
found in the forest are Dream Theater
mini reds black crested bull bull
babblers d'oeuvres barbets 17 kinds of
woodpecker
[Music]
the commonly seen Raptors in Corbett are
the Osprey crested serpent eagle black
shouldered kite Chikara palace fishing
eagle and hawk eagle these birds of prey
hunt for food primarily on the wing
[Music]
most of the water birds are migrants and
arrive in the winters they begin
arriving from early November until the
symbol and written by the spring some of
these are the gray leg and par headed
goose Dirk's of many kinds great crested
grebe snipe Sandpiper lure girl and
whack teeth some of the residents are
daughters
egrets heavens and cormorants
[Music]
India's National Board peacock slightly
occupies that spot that elaborate and
surely burns out its iridescent blue and
green plumage to attract the P hence
[Music]
the vultures commonly found other Indian
wide packed Himalayan long built and the
ancient king vulture also called
redheaded vulture
these endangered species find a safe
haven in Corbett
[Music]
gillece fastens jungle Babloo and great
rankling scratching and foraging around
for food like insects in the ground
[Music]
holds and bees can be seen collecting
nectar from brightly colored flowers
[Music]
there is a variety of species of vasp
stew such as the paper wasp a frog it is
dropping on frog all these frog ripples
get created when draw calls occur but
they create multi sensory messages which
can be exploited both by rivals and
predators the nocturnal birds are the
nightjars pickney owls and outlets down
enters are the best times of the day to
spot owls in the deep dense woods a
moonlit night is also a good time for
outing various species of this bird the
brown Tricia is an earlier resident of
mainly the lowlands
[Music]
while Indian bore unearths the roots and
bulbs from the ground with its hard
snout indian bore is an omnivore with
90% of its diet being plants
[Music]
the Longos and the rhesus monkeys are
well distributed throughout the park
these primates nicely troop around
masquerading the lush greens in the
large social groups they usually inhabit
eight and swing around on trees where
they easily find leaves and fruits to
eat the food dropped by them is consumed
by the deers and wild boars grazing on
the ground
[Music]
[Music]
a pack of jackals mean during in their
territory in the rock crevices of the
riverbeds
to cool off on a sunny day
[Music]
the magnanimous elephants are one of the
main attractions of Corbett the whole
jungle belongs to them they rightly hold
their place as the preservers of the
jungle the elephants are usually seen
eating all day long
it can be attributed to the low
absorption of the food and its nutrients
in the body nearly half of the food
consumed is defecated as an indigestible
which warms food for other birds in the
ecosystem
[Music]
the elephants are a very intelligent
species and poses similar
characteristics of caregiving for their
little ones the mothers are often seen
carousing and nudging the calves with
their trunks safeguarding and guiding
the way
[Music]
Julie elephants are a magnificent pink
[Music]
deers are undoubtedly the communists
sighting in Jim Corbett providing
plentiful prey there are four kinds of
deers seborrhea
barking dear
[Music]
spotted deer and hog deer inhabiting Jim
Corbett
[Music]
the Royal Bengal tiger takes the center
stage as the territorial being moves
through his kingdom it stirs up a wave
of doubt and panicky alarming sounds by
Tears Randall's Birds etc giving out
distinguishable signs in the vicinity
[Music]
this call of the wild not only drives
animals through the jungle but also race
aside and resonates with the human race
eager to catch a glimpse of this beast
Tigers in combat are accustomed to this
mindful stalking of humans on gypsies in
this natural park they stay calm and
walk by unless someone stops there or
comes in their way breaching the rules
[Music]
as a conservatory would save the tiger
project at its heart the tiger attains
prime focus for visitors coming to catch
a glimpse of this majestic cat
[Music]
Harbor Tiger Reserve has the highest
density of population of tigers in the
country at 2500 square kilometers
[Music]
the Sun begins to set upon the horizon
and the safari comes to an end for the
day
[Music]
my typical day after the safari
culminates with feeding my favorite
animal the elephant's add the poorest
resthouse
[Music]
you
