remember when our Gore was into truth
wanted to force it on us no matter how
inconvenient it was we heard a lot about
that film I just typed its title into
the ABC search engine and got a couple
of pages of results let me tell you
about another film planet of the humans
I typed that into the ABC search engine
and came up blank this is a documentary
that absolutely skews the renewable
energy industry which is kind of strange
because this is a film of the far green
left directed by Jeff Gibbs its
executive producer is Michael Moore the
millionaire leftist Academy
award-winning director of Bowling for
Columbine Fahrenheit 911 and Trump land
however in this film the argument is
that renewable energy is not clean not
green and not practical have a look at
this segment exposing a General Motors
promotion of electric cars
because everybody thought we killed the
electric vehicle no we didn't
so what's charging the batteries right
now what where what's the source of uh
well here it's coming from the building
I mean is it um what's our mix of power
oh actually Lansing feeds the building
what's that Lansing feeds power to the
building so I don't I don't know
I bet you they're a bit of cool a lot of
they're heavy on natural gas right now
the car is charging off of your grid
right it would be charging off uh our
grid which is nine about 95 call how
long do you think it will be before
there's a solar and wind powered grid oh
golly to suggest that all of the power
used for these cars will be generated
from wind and solar in the very near
future would not be correct in fact
these were talking about charging these
up at night so there won't be any solar
at that time so we're down to wind and
very often at night the wind does fall
off
that reminds me of last year's federal
election campaign the film goes on to
attack major corporations for their
pretense their virtue signaling on
renewable energy
Bill claims to be 100 renewable we never
stop thinking about what's best for the
planet we now run apple on 100 renewable
energy
[Applause]
and they did chop down a forest to put
up solar panels near their North
Carolina plant but they didn't
disconnect from the grid and they can't
Duke says energy hungry companies like
apple can never go entirely Off the Grid
they're still hooked up to our grid
despite all the claims I haven't found a
single entity anywhere in the world
that's running on 100 solar and wind
alone
wow this is the sort of hypocrisy and
reality that we on the center right
usually point out and it's coming from
the hard left the film even argues that
the mining of rare Metals intensive
energy used to make steel wind turbines
land clearing for solar farms and the
need to dispose of them and replace this
infrastructure within a decade or two is
not well
um it's not environmentally friendly
so after all the mining
the fossil fuels
the toxins
the environmental destruction
here's what happens next
[Music]
only a few years after it was built
things that Ivan Palm began to fall
apart
broken mirrors littered the desert
yes these giant solar and wind
technology installations
May last only a few decades
then tear it down and start all over
again
if there's enough Planet left
if there's enough Planet left yep it is
catastrophist this is full-on climate
alarmism that's the part the green left
media will love the guardian the nine
newspapers and the ABC will nod their
heads at this stuff it's what they've
been saying for years but this film
exposes their incurious backing for
renewable energy on the center right
we've always said that Renewables are
nice if they work but they're expensive
unreliable impractical and frankly a bit
of a con now the left are onto this for
instance exposing the absolute nonsense
of so-called biomass green energy
essentially just burning trees
you got everything here
you have the number one polluter in the
state that people think emits magical
fairy dust from the smokestack
reality is what you have is a facility
that burns 400 000 Green tons a year or
trees this facility Burns 30 cords of
wood per hour that's a hell of a lot of
wood and on top of that it actually
Burns natural gas as well do you think
you would have to have 10 of these to
replace one average coal-fired power
plants you know it's just not going to
work it's just nuts it takes a great
deal of fossil fuels to cut down all
these trees to truck them in to use the
big machinery to dump the wood chips
everywhere so the idea that somehow this
is not anything to do is fossil fuels
just doesn't make any sense it couldn't
happen without fossil fuels in fact
renewable energy because you can grow
more trees
apart from all this planet of the humans
exposes how big money major corporations
and Wealthy investors profit from all of
this soaking up government subsidies and
profiting from Green posturing
Bloomberg sponsored a U.N climate
session to discuss wrapping up biomass
and biofuels around the world
billionaires were in love with the idea
of turning what was left of nature into
green profits
remember when Al Gore had gotten Richard
Branson to invest billions into saving
the planet Richard Branson founder of
Virgin Atlantic powered a Boeing 747
from London to Amsterdam on a coconut
oil mixture to highlight the potential
of this amazing oil as a clean energy
biofuel
Branson had actually invested in
biofuels
he was attempting to replace the jet
fuel damaging the planet with biofuels
that required the consumption of The
Living Planet
it's hard to believe we're seeing this
from the left isn't it but why haven't
you heard much about it why isn't the
ABC talking about this showing this film
debating it they usually love Mike
Moore's films they usually love to
promote the political films of the green
left this one goes too far for them of
course it attacks Renewables and people
that most climate alarmists regard as
secular Saints like Al Gore
on one side we have gold bars
um
don't they look good I'd just like to
have some of those gold bars on the
other side of the scales the entire
planet
if we do the right thing then we're
going to create a lot of wealth
and when it came time for Al Gore to
choose between the entire planet and
getting him some of them gold bars what
choice did he make
here's Al Gore earning his keep by
pretending to care about the rainforest
while lobbying Congress on behalf of the
sugar cane ethanol industry
any comment on the Brazilian effort here
with the issue of the possibility
expanding into that Amazon River Basin
with further deforestation to produce
more ethanol on a sugar cane is a worry
and I apparently you're not as concerned
about that because no no I I am I simply
forgot
look to be fair there are a few things
this film forgets too such as the fact
it's a good thing when natural gas-fired
electricity replaces coal this Cuts
emissions by at least half and allows
better integration with renewable energy
the film also conveniently forgets that
nuclear energy is the emissions-free
Silver Bullet that could sustain much of
the planet with base load power the film
argues the only solution to all of this
is to reduce our population but it also
forgets that as countries become
developed prosperous and educated thanks
in large part to Reliable and cheap
energy they tend to slow or stop their
population growth but to bring this back
to the domestic media it seems the ABC
has forgotten about Mike Moore in this
film last I checked they hadn't reported
on it at all
it seems to present too many
inconvenient truths
