[Music]
Cannabis contains about 500 different
chemical compounds most people are
familiar with THC main chemical and
cannabis that gets you high but another
important chemical in the plant is
cannabidiol or CBD along with THC CBD is
frequently used for medical purposes the
doses of these cannabinoids vary
depending on the type of cannabis and
how its consumed many people assume that
all cannabis is the same but like wine
and hard liquor the sheer number of
options especially in a legal market can
be overwhelming despite the countless
strains all cannabis can be categorized
into three main species sativa indica
and ruderalis many familiar with the
plan have heard of cannabis sativa known
for its energetic stimulating head highs
and cannabis indica known for its
relaxing body highs but there are also
hybrids which are typically part sativa
and part indica hybrids are common and
offer a body head-high combination that
varies depending on the particular
strain finally cannabis ruderalis isn't
discussed grown or consumed nearly as
often as the other varieties because
ruderalis plants don't get very large
and then flowers contain low levels of
THC each of these cannabis species comes
in a plethora of strains with their own
effects tastes smells and levels of THC
and CBD once the type of cannabis is
chosen it can be consumed and prepared
in several different ways you can smoke
it
to food court consumed in the oil form
smoking the plant is the most common
method of consumption because it's easy
and inexpensive
additionally pots effects are almost
instantaneous when smoked and it's
obvious when you've had enough vaporized
cannabis has the same rapid onset and
ease of titration while removing
possible negative effects of smoking in
people with respiratory problems another
common method of consuming cannabis is
oil which can be eaten put into capsules
vaporized or smoked oil is typically
used for medical purposes or buy
cannabis enthusiasts seeking a better
high a less common way to use canvas is
topically with cream or ointment these
methods don't cause any psychoactive
effects but work to treat some medical
conditions finally eating cannabis is
becoming increasingly popular especially
with Colorado and Washington states
legalizing the plan edible cannabis
products like cakes and candies are
controversial however as it's easy to
eat too much and have an unpleasant
experience especially as a novice
cannabis user this is because it can
take 30 to 120 minutes for any
noticeable effects to occur furthermore
cannabis edibles tend to cause a
stronger and longer lasting hive in
smoking while the effects of smoke
cannabis lasts about one to three hours
the effects of eating cannabis can last
about 6 to 10 hours according to Mitch
Earlywine a professor of psychology at
the State University of New York at
Albany eaten cannabis gets metabolized
by the liver so Delta 9 THC becomes 11
hydroxy THC which passes the blood-brain
barrier more rapidly and has more of a
psychedelic effect than standard THC
smoked or vaporized cannabis bypasses
the liver and doesn't create the same 11
hydroxy THC Pulitzer prize-winning New
York Times columnist Maureen Dowd got
really high she was doing some research
in Denver after Colorado's legalization
of marijuana and Dowd had a really bad
trip like super bat dad wrote it all up
in a recent column I felt a scary
shudder go through my body and brain I
barely made it from the desks of the bed
Reilly crawled up in a hallucinatory
state for the next eight hours I was
thirsty but couldn't move to get water
or even turn on the lights
I was panting and paranoid sure but when
the room service waiter knocked and I
didn't answer
he called the police and had me arrested
for being unable to handle my candy Oh
Maureen of course she did that thing
that nobody smart ever would do is eat
the whole bar for crying out if you
actually read the labels on bars and may
have labels now which they didn't in the
black market for pods you might expect
Dowd has gotten a lot of response
including from this guy Matt Brown
described as one of Maureen Dowd's
primary marijuana industry contacts in
Denver Brown is the co-founder of my 420
tours
featuring the Colorado Summer mountain
cannabis tour he showed out around town
as the burning question did you like
warned maureen dowd of how potent those
pot edibles can be the answer according
to the cannabis is yeah man yeah she got
the warning Brown said she did what all
the reporters did she listened she
bought some samples I don't remember
what exactly me and the owner of the
distance area and the assistant manager
and the budtender talked with her for 45
minutes at the shop the article even
implies doubt could have avoided the
whole Superbad trip if he had just
rolled a joint instead quote she got
some bud some edibles and when we got
back to the hotel she had to run off to
a Mitt Romney documentary screening she
asked me will you roll a joint for me I
don't know how to do it but she had to
run really quickly to the screening and
I was going to catch a flight the next
day and we were gonna connect a few
nights later but it never worked out but
regardless of how uncomfortable and
edible cannabis high it may be for a
newbie unlike those who consume too much
alcohol or prescription painkillers
according to Paul R Montano deputy
director of normal they're not going to
suffer any long-term potential harm
toxicity or lethal overdose it's not as
if people are going to the hospital and
having their stomachs pumped after using
cannabis he says we shouldn't base you
know one person's bad trip or or use of
drugs badly if you had eight servings of
you know vodka and light weight and
wrote about it it would be pretty ugly
shots of patron if I did I wouldn't be
here right now IV vomiting in Camille's
bucket
in the ER I would just trip alone in
your hotel room in the dark she did so
many things wrong here and the other
thing she did wrong that I really I hold
her accountable for this is she took a
little bit and didn't wait long enough
and it didn't work so she took some more
and then ate the whole candy bar and she
gets a gold medal that's what you do
when you're 19 or in her case 75 it's
worth highlighting that the incentives
for the people who are selling these
edibles are pretty clear they don't want
to make you sick and want you to have a
pleasurable experience when you buy
their products you'll come back and get
more I suspect that if these products
didn't have the label she said she
wasn't warned at the store although she
did learn about it the next day
that's bedroom she did not vet the
product she did not do her variations
and I'm kind of ashamed she bench ate
Nick Gillespie Akali good reason has a
good point about this that this is all
actually part of the market discovery
process here in fact that's that's norm
but so happens we're going to get rid of
prohibition start legalizing things
people are going to engage in kinds of
trials and error and it's it's actually
helpful to have people write about it
and explain it I mean you know if
someone reads this and realizes that
they shouldn't eat an entire candy bar
full of pot that's not the worst thing
in the world the worst thing in the
world in my mind is that they read that
and come to the inaccurate conclusion
that having that thing legally available
is worse than having a black market when
all kinds of worse things are available
so when cannabis is consumed what
happens to your body to put it simply
the cannabinoids travel through your
bloodstream to your brain where the THC
fits into receptors that are part of the
brains natural endocannabinoid system
this system helps control an array of
functions like emotions memory paint
sensitivity and appetite
humans and many animals normally produce
their own endocannabinoids that fit into
these receptors so by imitating their
activity THC can dramatically alter the
same functions THC also increases
dopamine and other neurotransmitter
activity in the brain dopamine is
released naturally in response to food
sex and other enjoyable things
Cannabis affects everyone differently
and highs can vary greatly depending on
tolerance dosage method of consumption
strain used state of mind and
environment it's also important to keep
in mind that while cannabis may all
three users in profound ways the effects
are temporary commonly short-term
cannabis effects include euphoria
relaxation altered perception feelings
of well-being an increased appreciation
for music and other arts introspection
dry mouth and increased senses appetite
creativity and libido memory disruptions
a warped sense of time and paranoia are
also possible short-term effects
especially for infrequent cannabis users
according to a 2012 study THC can also
increase heart rate however the sample
size was a mere 16 male subjects which
is too small to reach an accurate
conclusions when you first smoke that is
you know you light up a joint the spliff
of blunts receptors which are throughout
the brain respond and these areas of the
brain are responsible for things like
pleasure memory learning sensation a
sense of time and space
coordination movement appetite and other
drives shall we say so it's sort of an
all-over impact right so reward pleasure
hunger you have this this overall
feeling of well-being they say that all
sounds pretty good other scientific
studies have been done on the acute
effects of cannabis like studies about
the long-term effects of weed potential
harm is the focus of most of these
studies for example a 2013 study found
that all cannabis doses caused time over
and under estimation in novice users
conversely the researchers concluded
heavy users do not experience these
negative temporal effects furthermore
infrequent cannabis users often
experience disruptions in memory and
spatial navigation
a result of the high number of
cannabinoid receptors in the hippocampus
and prefrontal cortex of the brain
columbia university neuroscientist carl
heart research subjects in his lab smoke
marijuana and then take a variety of
cognitive tests the effects will be
disruption
in memory disruptions in inhibitory
control they will become slower at
cognitive functioning a wide range of
things these effects are temporary but
they're pretty pronounced and they're
clear and it's slowly becoming clear to
scientists what part of the brain is
most affected
it's the prefrontal cortex it's very
important for planning thinking
coordinating your behaviors
there are tons of marijuana receptors in
this region and we think that marijuana
particularly in the novice can disrupt
all of those behaviors an impairment
that Hart cautions could be dangerous
especially when driving look at this
experiment done by CNN affiliate ki ro
in Washington State subjects smoked
marijuana
and then drove one was a daily medical
marijuana smoker and another an
infrequent weekend smoker relaxed
buzz the more the novice user smoked the
more trouble behind the wheel watch
yourself watch yourself but
interestingly the habitual smoker didn't
have as much trouble and that's
something I witnessed firsthand driving
around with 19 year old Chaz Moore the
day that I spent with him he had been
smoking all day long do you feel
impaired at all no I don't normal it
turns out when you test people who have
a lot of experience with cannabis you
don't see many disruptions but if you
test people who have sort of a limited
history with cannabis you can see some
clear pronounced disruptions
additionally two separate studies by
researchers at the University of Western
Ontario and Vanderbilt University
suggest that cannabis may trigger or
mute anxiety and fear in users via
cannabinoid receptors in the amygdala
you can get paranoid you can have
disorganized thinking you get
disoriented it can be uncomfortable into
panic attacks another common result of
cannabis use is increased appetite or
the munchies which is effective in
treating nausea and appetite loss
once again this effect is caused by
cannabinoid receptors in the brain more
specifically in the hypothalamus which
regulates appetite in 2014 researchers
in France concluded that THC causes
users to smell and taste more intensely
while mimicking the sensation of
starvation in their brains
additionally researchers who published a
study in 2012 found that dopamine
created from THC acts on cannabinoid
receptors in a part of the brain called
the nucleus accumbens increasing the
pleasure of eating while high another
positive phenomenon often associated
with cannabis use is increased
creativity though the evidence is
largely anecdotal
there's this phenomenon reported by many
smokers over the years especially famous
artists the ability to be more creative
when you feel that high there's sort of
a release of dopamine and your brain
sort of has the ability now to perceive
things slightly differently from the way
you might have if you hadn't been
smoking pot what you really see is this
reduction in hit Vettori function a 2001
study found that using cannabis cause no
increasing creativity while a 2012 study
by scientists in the UK found the
opposite painter Amir a successful
artist his canvases sell for up to
twenty five thousand dollars
[Music]
it's my favorite way to work he's been
painting for 14 years smoking for even
longer he says it makes him feel more
relaxed but most importantly for him he
says it makes him less critical of his
own work stop worrying so much about
this and that and just sort of looking
and being as as present as possible once
again cannabis is effects vary depending
on many factors and novice users should
pay careful attention to dosage
especially when eating cannabis smoking
or vaporizing weed is a better method of
consumption for a first timer it's also
important to remember that any
unpleasant effects from too much
cannabis are temporary
[Music]
[Music]
