over the last decade the use of
electronic cigarettes commonly referred
to as vapes has seen a dramatic increase
marketed as a safer alternative to
smoking these devices offer a cleaner
option for adults looking to kick their
habits in the last few years however a
device known as the jewel has broken on
to the scene and while it claims it's
marketed towards adults it has found its
way into the hands of underage users who
have never smoked before I sat down with
some individuals involved with the
newest trend and took a deeper look into
the world behind the nicotine delivery
device that is taking the nation by
storm I spoke with a high school student
who uses the Joule Kyle I'm 17 years old
junior in high school I've been using
the Joule for about six months now it's
very addictive tried to quit
Karen he helped explain what a Joule is
and how it works yes so the Joule so
it's like this is the battery pack this
is what you buy and then you charge it
with magnetic then these other Pods
don't even know what type of juice that
is the pods are not FDA approved which
is bad but oh well it's some type of
juice there's different flavors mints
the popular one mango is also very
popular and so you just plug it in the
light lights up no button vapes have fun
there's no bun you just hit it breathe
in I asked Kyle how many pods he uses in
a day
probably maybe like one or two but if
it's the weekend and you're you have a
fun night you're going out you can
finish a pot it's a couple hours people
friends want to hit it and it's just
going like that and then you're buying
more just like that so I guess on the
weekdays an average one or two weekends
for maybe it's quick and the most he's
ever gone through and one day by himself
three three that's aggressive it was
very aggressive kyle has gone as far as
to give his jewel and name JoEllen Beebe
Sixers basketball player or my favorite
yeah
fits well I asked Kyle if he ever uses
his jewel in school during the day I do
how do you use my jewel sometimes in
class the teacher is writing notes on
board and you just get up real quick and
then bathroom breaks I have you on the
bathroom five kids just passing around
some jewels and other and you just every
time someone walks in you can't even
melt like quick look like make sure it's
like someone cool you know don't want to
get caught at first it was easy because
we charged it right on our laptop you
just use a u.s. plug a USB plug and like
you charge it and teachers won't even
know we just say oh it's like or you go
to USB like it's memory but now like
once teachers know like they're catching
us and case get suspended and yeah it's
bad but probably like two kids this year
well it's not illegal to use tobacco
products under the age of 18 you must be
that age to buy them that forces
underage users like Kyle to find
alternative ways to acquire their pods
I spoke to Hermes a self-described
black-market pod dealer to gain insight
on the world beyond the convenience
store counter well when I first started
out I was maybe only moving like a pack
a day but uh as time goes on it gains
popularity
I'm living hundreds at a time ha you
know man everybody loves this stuff
depending where I'm at I'll be selling
them to anybody from 12 up to 20th
mountain Cali because they have the 21
year old laws over there so people can't
get him as early but uh hey if the price
is right
sometimes I'll move in like seven eight
nine and the demand for jewel pods never
seems to stop I've been selling jewels
for as long as I can remember
[Music]
hey what's up no I mean I'm not busy
how much you need okay I can do that
all right man tell me about 70 I'll meet
you over at X in that in about half an
hour chuckle all right peace
was that a customer say that 70 bucks
seems a little steep fifth-graders am i
right at this point it was clear that
Hermes was pressed for time but we
continued the interview anyway yeah man
like I said I've been sewing as long as
I can remember anyone that ever goes out
to XI to get go BPO that I got him
cleaned out so I can control the market
drive up the price if I can't buy him
anywhere else I get something for
whatever I want
well they usually go about 20 upon 15
for cool Tanna for good friends
despite the inventory that he buys
Hermes made his position on joy usage
very clear huh - I use the jewel nah man
I'm all natural camo blues marble rez I
asked Hermes if he was afraid of getting
caught for what he does no I'm not
worried about getting exposed all my
customers know I like to run a tight
ship keep things down on lock so it's
all good
everyone knows in my high school to go
to Hermes he's just the guy you just go
in line or hit him up and he'll just get
you pods it's easy as that cool guys
very smooth it's not sketchy at all we
just got a tip I'm actually like a
couple bucks and it's easy he makes
money you get pods you just ask him
where do you want to meet Hermes we send
you a destination you just go there it's
pretty smooth it doesn't take long at
all I want to say like I barely see his
face sometimes like he's just always
wearing a hat you know just very
secretive guy but going through Hermes
means that Kyle has to pay a premium I
know in this store they're about like
they range between like 10 to 20 but
because I'm underage I usually pay more
see you around 20 sometimes 25 but like
the more you'd buy and if you buy in
bulk they'll be cheaper so sometimes you
can get it like down to like $10 a pack
but you just gotta know Hermes so it's
about
connections with the added expenses I
asked Kyle if he ever finds himself
scrapping for change to pay for his
habit so all the time quarters you know
you get your piggy bank he's just like
shaking and all the quarters you get
friends you're like all right you want
to throw me and I'll give you one pod
because for pot odds come in a pack so
sometimes we'll split them you know
because like if you are just feeding in
four pods it's bad the jury is still out
on whether or not electronic cigarettes
are safer than smoking but studies so
far have shown promising results to back
up the claims whether you believe
underage dual use is a problem is for
you to decide but it appears that as
long as these devices exist young users
will keep people like Hermes in business
[Music]
