today i want to give you a step-by-step
guide for 35 millimeter film photography
i'm going to cover everything from
choosing the right camera loading the
film and shooting
if you've already got a camera and are
just looking for a specific piece of
information feel free to skip through
the different chapters of this video
let's begin
[Music]
before even getting into cameras and
films i think it's a good idea for you
to get a basic understanding of what
film photography is and how it works
put very simply this here is film and
it's basically just plastic with a
magical mix of chemicals on it that is
sensitive to light when the roll of film
is inside the camera it is in complete
darkness every time you shoot a photo
you are essentially letting in light
through your lens and that then hits the
film that light sort of burns the
chemicals that are on the film in a way
that shapes and colours are reflected on
the material so after developing you can
then look at your photos on the film and
see how the material was burnt by the
light that is more or less how film
photography works
so next it's time to get a camera maybe
you've already got a camera passed down
to you from your parents or grandparents
this here is my dad's old pentax k1000
which he bought back in the 80s and then
carried around the world with him on his
trips if you don't have a film camera
yet you should know about the three main
types of film cameras so that you can
choose the one that best suits you
basically you have a choice between an
slr a rangefinder and a point shoot
let's briefly go over each one
an slr camera gives you the option to
change lenses and shoot manually what
you see when looking through the
viewfinder is very close to the actual
image thanks to the internal mirror
mechanism a rangefinder camera on the
other hand has a different type of
viewfinder which in my opinion is the
most significant difference what you see
in the viewfinder of a rangefinder is
not exactly what you get instead you
have frame lines which can assist you
when composing this can be especially
tricky when you decide to shoot with
longer focal lengths seeing as the image
through the viewfinder will not change
whereas the slr camera will show you the
view through the lens something worth
mentioning when it comes to rangefinders
is that not all of them allow you to
change your lens and when it is possible
that usually means the camera is more
expensive however if you like compact
small size rangefinders can usually
offer you a smaller setup than slrs
lastly point shoot cameras are as the
name suggests automatic cameras that
only require you to point the camera and
shoot the photo you don't need to set
the exposure yourself and often you
don't need to focus but this depends on
the camera this minolta is fully
automatic
the exposure the focusing even the film
advancing everything
[Music]
this olympus xa3 however only exposes
automatically the focus you have three
different settings here that you can
choose from and the film advancing is
with this wheel here
so these are the three types of cameras
that you'll mostly come across and it
fully depends on you and your situation
which type of camera you should choose
here are two examples you're interested
in photography and even practice it
digitally already but now you want to
get into film photography you value
precision when composing and you want to
be able to freely change lenses anytime
in that case an slr is probably the best
fit for you but let's say you're more
interested in easily capturing moments
in your everyday life or while traveling
and the moment and the emotions are more
important to you then maybe a
point-and-shoot is better for you
because with an slr you're going to want
to take your time when shooting
one more thing to consider is the
following slrs and many range finders
are fully mechanical cameras whereas i
believe most point-and-shoot cameras are
electronic this means that the
mechanical cameras do not require a
battery to shoot whereas for
point-and-shoot cameras you're going to
have to find the right battery for the
camera
alright so with this basic understanding
of the cameras it is now time to get one
i personally always do this in private
second-hand markets so here in austria i
go to a website where people sell their
stuff they don't need anymore and i've
often come across great deals on there
however one drawback with this method is
that you can never be sure that the
camera actually works some people just
found the camera in their grandad's
attic and don't know themselves whether
it works or not so this camera for
example i got from that kind of a person
and unfortunately there seems to be some
problem with the shuttle so and it is
not working at least i haven't been able
to use it so far
an alternative and safer way to buy your
film camera is at a professional camera
shop where they sell old second-hand
film cameras the experts in the shop
have tested the camera and know that it
works so that's a bit of certainty for
you however what is also certain is that
this is going to be more expensive
obviously seeing as it has been checked
by professionals
anyway whichever way you get your camera
it's then time to understand it
[Music]
if you've never held a film camera
before it might seem a bit overwhelming
at first sight in this video i can't
really explain the workings of a camera
very well because there are just so many
different types of cameras each with
variations in the way they work here's a
very broad breakdown of the basic things
that'll apply to almost all cameras for
further information you can usually find
something on your specific camera on
youtube but that of course depends on
its popularity
so for the broad example i'm going to
show you my pentax k1000 this button is
the shutter to shoot your photo but
before you can shoot a photo you need to
advance the film to do that you pull
this lever so when i pull this the film
is pulled over sideways to allow a new
empty frame to be exposed once it's in
position the lever will no longer go
further and the camera will now allow
you to press the shutter
this knob is like on digital cameras
simply the shutter speed on the pentax
you can pull up this outside ring and
turn it to change the iso rating i'll
explain what you need this for later
this here is the counter which tells you
how many shots you've shot so that you
know how many you have left on the roll
this thing over here is a foldable lever
and a knob to wind the film back into
its canister after shooting the whole
roll many slrs also use this to open the
back of the camera so you simply pull
this up and the back will pop open
these were all things that you'll
probably find on all slrs but for
further detail you have to look on
youtube or elsewhere online
now that you understand the basics of
your camera it's time to get a roll of
film
[Music]
here again you have a wonderful choice
of all sorts of films which differ in
characteristics such as colour and
contrast one thing you must be careful
of is that you buy the right format this
video is specifically for 35 millimeter
film so the cameras i've shown you are
also all 35 millimeter cameras which is
the most common however many
photographers also like to shoot medium
format which is simply a bigger size of
film so when buying film you just want
to make sure that you're buying 35
millimeter film not 120 or something
because that won't fit into your 35
millimeter camera to check the format
you just need to read the packaging and
it'll be written on there somewhere
when choosing your film there are
basically two variables that you need to
consider firstly what style do you want
and secondly what price are you willing
to pay
yeah film photography nowadays has
become very expensive i recently just
bought my first roll of portrait and
this here cost me 24 euros
for a beginner i would recommend going
with kodak gold 200 which is a cheapish
color film so that you don't spend too
much money on film that might suffer
from the many mistakes that happen when
starting out for black and white i can
recommend akfa apx400 which is also
quite affordable in fact i think it's
the cheapest film i've found so far
[Music]
so now that you've got a camera and a
roll of film it is time to load the film
and prepare your camera to shoot this is
again a unique process depending on each
camera so the best is to search for your
exact model on youtube and you'll
probably find someone who's done a
tutorial on it but most cameras are
quite similar so maybe after watching
the way i load my pentax you'll be able
to figure it out yourself for your
camera without a tutorial
point-and-shoot cameras can be quite
different to slr's rangefinders so this
minolta for example you simply open the
back lay the film in and close it again
and it'll do the rest itself but slrs
aren't as simple here's how it works on
the pentax
so to begin with you of course need to
open the back of your camera and with
slrs it's usually like this that you
insert your film here and then push this
down again to hold the film in place
then you take the leader and pull it out
a little more to bring it over to this
side just as a reminder film is light
sensitive so every bit you pull out is
going to be unusable so try to avoid
pulling out more than necessary
then this part over here is what is
usually different depending on each
camera the pentax has a small slot where
you stick your leader into and then you
use the lever to advance it
[Music]
make sure that the sprocket holes align
with the sprocket so that the film is
advanced properly then by pulling the
lever and pressing the shutter you can
advance the film until you're certain
that it's working once you're sure that
the film is in you can close the back to
make sure that the advancing is working
you can keep an eye on this knob here if
you loaded your film correctly then this
knob should turn every time you advance
the film if it doesn't turn that could
mean that the film isn't being advanced
properly and you should probably try
inserting it again sometimes however it
only doesn't turn at first because of
the way the canisters work so before
advancing you can turn the knob back
until it doesn't let you go further then
when advancing it should turn and if it
doesn't something is not right
now that you've closed the back it is
important to remember that you must not
open this back until you've rolled your
phone back into its canister after
shooting because of course when you open
it light comes in and exposes the film
and ruins it
anyway once you've closed the back you
can advance once more because the film
that is currently behind the shutter has
already been exposed to light so of
course you won't be able to photograph
anything with that once you've moved
once or twice you might get that typical
first shot that is half burnt but after
that all your photographs should be in
full frame
[Music]
so next is of course shooting the film
[Music]
depending on your camera this process is
more or less complicated with an
automatic point shoot there's not much
to think about i mentioned earlier that
you need to set your iso rating which is
what happens now the minolta of course
does this automatically this sylvan
black pattern is called a dx code and
the minolta will read this and
understand that this is an iso 200 film
my olympus on the other hand has this
little setting at the front here where
you tell the camera what iso you've got
in there this is important because the
olympus meters the light automatically
so to meet it correctly it needs to know
which iso the film is the pentax on the
other hand doesn't set your settings
automatically it's fully manual
nevertheless it also has a way to set
the iso this is because the pentax has
an internal light meter which will tell
you if you're currently over or
underexposing or just right and that
light meter of course needs to know what
iso your film is
so when shooting your film manually with
for example an slr you need to get your
settings right just like with the
digital camera when shooting digital
it's often advantageous to slightly
under expose the photograph to retain
the details in the highlights which are
much harder to recover than the details
in the shadows with film it's exactly
the other way around details are hard to
recover from the shadows and easier to
recover from the highlights therefore
when shooting film it's best to expose
correctly or slightly overexpose to know
what settings you need you can use a
light meter the pentax for example has a
built-in light meter however i don't use
it for two reasons
firstly it needs a battery and i don't
really want to go on the search for the
right battery if there's another easy
way to do it
secondly i don't really trust these old
light meters because it's been said that
many of these cameras used their age
have inaccuracies in their light meters
and so i don't really know if the light
meter of my pentax is accurate and so i
just feel safer to use an external light
meter on my phone
there are many different light meter
apps in the app store i use one called
light meter free i tell the light meter
which iso my film is the app i'm
intending to shoot with and then it'll
tell me which shutter speed to use
additionally it gives you a preview of
the exposure so when it says shutter
speed 200 which the pentax doesn't offer
i'll set the camera to 125 to slightly
overexpose instead of underexposed and
so with the light meter working you can
now shoot your first roll of film
[Music]
when you finish the roll of film you'll
notice that you've finished because the
lever will no longer turn so now it's
time to wind the film back into its
canister before getting it out of the
camera to do this each camera usually
has a button to release the film except
the minor it does it automatically of
course but my pentax for example has
this button down here once i press it i
can then use this knob to wind the film
some cameras require that you keep this
button pressed on others you'll only
need to press it once if you're unsure
you can just press it anyway
while turning you'll feel the tension of
the film that you're pulling back at
some point that tension will suddenly
loosen and the turning will be much
easier that means the film is now fully
rolled back into the canister and you
can now open the back of the camera
with your first roll of film now exposed
you can choose to either develop and
scan it yourself or bring it to a lab
and let them do it for you for beginners
i would definitely recommend to just
take it easy and hand it to a lab i
personally don't develop my own film i
just scan it myself however i'm not
going to cover that process in this
video that'll be a separate video one
day when you hand it to a lab they're
going to develop the film for you scan
it edit it and finally send the digital
files to you in my case i hand the film
to the lab and they just develop it and
then call me so that i can come pick up
my negatives which i then scan at home
so that is all i think everything i
would explain to a beginner who wants to
start shooting film i hope this was
helpful if so i'd appreciate a like on
the video consider subscribing if you
haven't yet and i'll see you again next
week in the next video until then
goodbye
[Music]
you
