[Music]
hardly a shift goes by without a
physical assault police officers are
experiencing violence more and more
often now some German states are hoping
body camps may help deescalate that
trend worn on the uniforms the cameras
record the encounter and may discourage
potential attackers that's the idea
anyway
[Music]
mine's the skate capital of
rhineland-palatinate Gavin sheesh and
Stefan male are going on duty
the two officers carry a new weapon in
the fight against the increasing
violence and decreasing respect from the
public body cams the primary aim is our
own safety in other words we wear the
body cameras are preventative measure we
always carry them and we turn them on in
dangerous and tense situations to try to
influence the behavior of the people we
engage with almost every team is
equipped with the tiny cameras when they
go out on patrol the day's first call
involves bodily injury
Special Forces are already at the scene
the suspect is known to the police as a
hooligan with a record of bodily harm
forging checks narcotics possession and
resisting police officers this time the
suspect is accused of feeding a homeless
person police officers saw him do it the
suspect claims to have been defending
himself after a provocation it's his
second encounter with the police in one
day but he backs down the officers never
even turned on the body cam it's a busy
day in mites the weather is good the
home team has just won an important
soccer match the party mood and alcohol
increased the danger that the police
will experience violence soon in mind
says pedestrian mall Stefan Mel and
Gavin's fesh are called to take down a
charge of verbal abuse the accuser is
the same hooligan from before
he definitely abused me she said I was a
what did she say a weirdo and her
boyfriend said you not see buzz off you
with the red monster lips hey behave
yourself and stay close to me that's
enough you come back with me and remain
standing here in front even with prior
convictions for bodily harm and
resisting the police the man feels
they're treating him unfairly and I saw
what happened at the station and
obviously things aren't going very well
in town today you take a step back and
then we can talk
but the hooligan appears to have very
little respect for officer Stephan mail
you've already acknowledged what was
said so everything's in order so now
we're here to take down your complaint
you take a step back don't come any
closer on camera
as of now Stephan mail turns on the body
cam he's required to inform the citizens
verbally once again of the video
recording
basically what happened was that this
person was getting relatively aggressive
in my direction in particular so I
decided to turn on the body cam for
reasons of my own personal safety he was
getting too close to me and I wanted to
prevent that I was hoping that he'd
moderate his behavior and let the
situation deescalate a little and that's
just the way it seems to have worked
commenced it's after the initial
year-long test phase the officers and
minds have had overall positive
experiences with body cams they do seem
to help diminish a general lack of
respect
often you have a situation where people
see how far they can go they think they
can handle a police officer a bit
differently than they would otherwise in
situations like that it's important to
nip that in the bud and take direct
action and say okay up to this point and
no further when the police go off-duty
they hand the recorded video footage to
their superior officer he has special
software allowing him alone to copy save
or delete the videos where is your ID
your Marco and mr. Marco have you got a
last name the body cam records both
images and sound I'm not at all happy
that you're here ruining the mood now
I've got the camera turned on because of
the call is saying you're aggressive I'm
not why are you yelling here I'm not
yelling at all now I'm going to search
for your ID papers no I don't have any
ID on me hey are you deaf you dumb Pig
along with discouraging abuse the body
cams can provide conclusive documentary
evidence of crimes even of crimes the
police officers themselves have
committed so the body cams not only
protect the interests of the police but
of the citizens they encounter since
their introduction violence against
police officers has dropped by nearly
50% in minds but some criminal charges
are still filed that document extreme
hostility towards the police accused
behaved extremely aggressively
threatening to attack the officers after
he's released he spat on an officer and
insulted all officers present calling
them sons of [ __ ] saying I'll bang
your mother's on your graves the [ __ ] so
he is remanded to the custody of police
station 1 he's aged 16 to be picked up
at the station later by his parents and
the officers were only trying to stop a
brawl
in another case from two days ago the
subjects began resisting a female
suspect bit one officers arm and
another's face and struck another in the
chest to restore control over the
situation at least two other subjects
had to be pinned to the ground and
restrained
Girish we can only speculate as to why
disrespect resistance and abuse have
generally increased some wine for one
I'm sure something is lacking in their
upbringing their parents may be unable
to handle things these days and the
courts have so much to do that many
cases aren't processed completely by the
Tibetan current when things bother me
personally in court I have to put on the
Teflon and just take the abuse as a
police officer then you wonder if any
judge realizes what the current
situation is really like Elizabeth's own
sister showed shortly afterwards the
officers are back on the beat in
downtown mines when they drive past two
men one of them gives them the finger in
Germany it is illegal to insult an
officer we're running an identity check
because he's flipped as the middle
finger so we're checking them out you
can't do that it's not allowed if you've
had even a minimal upbringing you ought
to know that this kind of thing isn't
proper doesn't skirt for these officers
a line has been crossed can you explain
to me why you did that the brothers have
come to mines from Switzerland to party
do you give officers in Switzerland the
finger as well and how do they react do
they like it
the officers ordered them to leave they
have to vacate the area disrespect and
violence directed at the police has
soared dramatically in recent years
thirty-five-year-old stefan mail has
also had his share of these experiences
while on the beat at this site he once
had to handcuff a teenager who was
becoming extremely aggressive as I was
giving him instructions he turned around
and spat in my face you can feel this
incredible rage at that moment which of
course causes a really strong disgust
spitting in someone's face as many
fellow officers confirm is what provokes
you gets you worked up inside most of
all no amount of training can prepare a
police officer for something like that I
got rid of lots of rage and emotion at
that moment your human side really comes
out and it doesn't matter what everyone
around is thinking and seeing for a
moment your human self comes out and you
can't control it okay you're not just a
police officer that functions at the
push of a button no matter what it
always makes totally correct and emotion
free decisions I don't on a night shift
Stefan male and Gavin's fears have to
check out a group of teens everyone stay
here I'll be checking everyone's ID hey
you stay right down you calm down or
we're going to have to cuff you everyone
come over here find them all over there
the young men between the ages of 18 and
23 have no intention of letting the
officers see their IDs like that they
stall and provoke every way they can you
stand over there do I have to raise my
voice again that's a provocation when I
tell you to stand there five times and
you just don't do it
the officers tried de-escalation tactics
as long as they can without a body cam
you can't let the situation get out of
control you have to show people their
limits when they've reached the point
where we're not going to take any more
didn't do an oddish mega file awesome
I want to go home what are you doing
there you're sleeping in a Cell tonight
why am i sleeping there when an alcohol
test on me first opti call your mother
call her I didn't do anything he should
run an alcohol test
what are you doing you're grabbing my
throat
yes I'm buckling you in why buckle me in
I want to go home you can't do that man
shortly after the officers are called to
take charge of a man he was caught
trying to get away
the man is aggressive so the body cam is
switched on
now listen I'm turning the camera on
everything you say now will be recorded
you stay seated here and calm down who's
the racist missus is right I'm telling
the camera back on you know the way
you're acting here why me you're not
doing what we're telling you to this is
nothing to do with racists you're
spending the night in custody with us
climb in yourself no I really don't want
to bodily harm threatened assault and
resistance are hazards the police face
tens of thousands of cases annually have
been recorded throughout Germany the
numbers have been rising for years in
Mainz the negative trend was stopped by
the body cam
