hello everyone and welcome back to the
fluctus channel
the president of the United States is
considered by many to be among the most
important public figures in the world
[Music]
for this reason the president's advisors
cannot simply let their leader travel
from place to place via commercial means
[Music]
in the early 20th century the U.S
introduced the first presidential
motorcade
A procession of vehicles typically
accompanied by law enforcement and other
security personnel
the first to benefit was William Howard
Taft but since then every U.S president
and many other leaders have enjoyed the
protection of this defensive approach to
travel
foreign
motorcade serves a number of purposes
[Music]
for starters it is symbolic of the
president's importance and Power
[Music]
even before the invention of the
automobile
politicians and celebrities often
participated in parades and processions
designed to invoke a sense of authority
in the attending audience
ladies and gentlemen since the JFK
assassination which took place in a
motorcade the primary function of the
process is to protect the president from
potential threats
for this reason modern motorcades
typically include a lead vehicle several
support vehicles and a heavily armored
limousine for transporting the president
[Music]
have been constructed with various
Advanced security features including
bulletproof glass armor plating and
anti-bomb countermeasures
last but not least the motorcade serves
the Practical purpose of moving the
president from point A to point B
quickly and efficiently
because a local law enforcement is
typically involved processions can
usually bypass red lights in high
traffic areas to cut down on
Transportation time
the Secret Service is the organization
most directly responsible for protecting
the U.S president vice presidents and
other high-ranking government officials
[Music]
though they are essentially a federal
law enforcement agency they are
responsible for traveling with the
president to ensure his or her Safety
and Security at all times
an advanced team of Secret Service
agents will also arrive at Major
destinations ahead of the president so
that they can have everything ready and
waiting
and he might Rock back
this includes unloading all the
necessary Vehicles weaponry and other
equipment for the upcoming operation
every city street and event presents a
unique challenge for the Secret Service
team and its presidential motorcade
in order to ensure smooth Safe
Transportation for the president and
their team the Secret Service will
dedicate extensive resources and time to
the preparation process
[Music]
this includes route planning which means
evaluating any and all traffic patterns
road conditions security risks and
potential protests or demonstrations
[Music]
the advanced team will also coordinate
with local law enforcement government
officials and transportation authorities
to identify and mitigate any potential
problems
the motorcade is generally comprised of
lead Vehicles the presidential limousine
supporting vehicles and motorcycle units
the lead vehicles are responsible for
clearing the way and ensuring the route
is safe
the support vehicles and motorcycles
carry additional security medical
support and Personnel who can quickly
adapt to potential problems or threats
many presidential events involve more
than just moving the president from one
location to another
[Music]
in many cases the motorcade will be part
of an enormous parade with thousands of
people in attendance bands and other
presentations going on
foreign
to properly prepare for such an occasion
the Secret Service will spend
significant time Gathering regarding any
potential threats on a local or national
level
[Music]
it will also assess the route and
coordinate with other law enforcement
officials to establish backup plans that
can be executed in the event of an
emergency
operations
the Secret Service will also conduct
training exercises and rehearsals to
familiarize personnel with their roles
and responsibilities during the parade
[Music]
this includes pricing motorcade
formations emergency response drills and
crowd control procedures
contrary to popular belief the name Air
Force One does not always refer to a
specific plane
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
traffic control call sign for any United
States fixed Wing aircraft carrying the
president
[Music]
the history of this call sign goes all
the way back to the 1930s but did not
come to include any specialized aircraft
until 1943.
[Music]
that's when President Franklin D
Roosevelt began flying on a modified
Douglas c-54 Sky Master known as the
sacred cow
[Music]
this aircraft was the first to be
specifically built and equipped for
presidential use featuring an enclosed
sleeping area a radio telephone and
other amenities
[Music]
thank you by the 1990s Air Force One was
a heavily modified Boeing 747 capable of
long-distance flights and possessing a
variety of security countermeasures and
Communications equipment
[Music]
this model known as the vc25a boasts a
Max takeoff weight of 833 thousand
pounds can carry 76 passengers and
contains a number of meeting and
briefing rooms from which the president
can conduct business
one of the most iconic Air Force One
models in history was a modified
vc-137c Stratoliner designated Sam
26000.
though it was the primary presidential
aircraft for several U.S presidents it
is most commonly associated with John F
Kennedy
foreign
[Music]
-26000 was delivered to the U.S Air
Force in 1962 and became the first
jet-powered aircraft specifically built
for presidential use
it featured a distinctive blue and white
design that remains a fixture in Air
Force One models to this day
after Kennedy's assassination the plane
passed on to Lyndon B Johnson who took
it to Southeast Asia on multiple
occasions
[Music]
1998 after 36 years of service Sam 26000
was retired
the aircraft was then moved to the
national museum of the United States Air
Force in Dayton Ohio where it remains on
display
whenever Air Force One lands on
Sovereign or foreign soil the Secret
Service and local law enforcement will
Implement a highly detailed set of
processes
foreign
though Air Force One sometimes receives
a military escort it's more common that
planes will be standing by in the event
of an emergency
[Music]
in many cases the airport will set aside
a block of time so that Air Force One is
the only plane landing and Taxi
providing adequate room for the Secret
Service to Usher the president and their
Entourage into the waiting vehicles
the entire process involves strict
security measures and confidentiality so
that bad actors have little to no chance
of interfering with the president's trip
[Music]
foreign
States generally does its best to
transport foreign dignitaries and other
VIPs in both safety and style
[Music]
for this reason the government has
invested in a series of Gulf Stream c-37
aircraft they can use to Ferry Personnel
around the country
the typical c37 is a business class
private jet
they are roughly 96 feet long and can
carry between 15 and 19 passengers
[Music]
since both Air Force One and the
government c37s are specifically
intended to carry VIPs and their staff
the United States goes to Great Lengths
to provide these individuals with a wide
range of comforts
foreign
this includes highly trained in-flight
culinary Specialists who essentially
function as Airborne executive chefs
[Music]
and while safe transport from place to
place is always priority number one the
United States military isn't afraid to
ensure their VIPs travel in style
[Music]
that's the end of this video
I hope you enjoyed it make sure to
subscribe to this channel so you don't
miss any of our new content
see you next time
