hi friends Benjamin is with you and
today I want to tell you another
heartbreaking story on the 11th of
August 2008 a Monday Sarah Whitmer a
24-year-old dental hygienist and her
27-year-old husband Ryan Whitmer a
sports planner were at their home in
Fort Thomas Kentucky United
States Sarah had just finished her work
at a dental practice and Ryan had
completed his day as well the couple who
had met through mutual friends and
quickly become Inseparable enjoyed a
quiet evening together their
relationship had blossomed from a blind
date at a pub to buying a house getting
married and being in the midst of newly
wed Bliss having been married for only 4
months as they looked forward to their
future
which included plans for a Costa Rica
honeymoon and a vacation to Cancun the
most exciting anticipation was centered
around the prospect of getting a new
puppy a venture they were actively
pursuing together on the night of August
11th Ryan and Sarah Whitmer enjoyed
leftover hamburgers corn on the cob and
cheesy potatoes while watching
TV according to Ryan they started with
some of Sarah's favorite shows before
switching to a football game
subsequently Sarah decided to take a
bath in the master bedroom's bathroom
Ryan recalled that she asked him to
check the doors before he joined her
upstairs he remembered her walking
upstairs after they both said I love you
she walks on her tippy toes as she often
did at 10:49 p.m. that night Ryan called
911 the call lasted 7 minutes he told
the 911 dispatcher that his wife had
fallen asleep in the bathtub at their
home in Marrow Ohio Ryan told the
dispatcher my wife she fell asleep in
the bathtub I think I was downstairs I
just came up here and she was laying
face down in the
bathtub Ryan explained to the dispatcher
that he had been downstairs watching TV
and upon going upstairs he discovered
Sarah lying face down in the bathtub he
mentioned that she had a habit of
falling asleep in the tub regularly
following the dispatcher's instructions
Ryan undertook the process of removing
Sarah from the bathtub and was guided
through administering
CPR during this time he temporarily
placed the phone down as he emptied the
tub and lifted Sarah taking
approximately 29
seconds the police arrived at his
residence within 6 minutes of the 911
call and found Sarah naked on the
bedroom floor although her body felt
warm and dry her hair was wet while
attempting CPR the police observed a
pinkish white frothy discharge emanating
from Sarah's mouth and nose indicative
of drowning when paramedics arrived they
made two unsuccessful attempts to
intubate Sarah in the bedroom
subsequently two more attempts were made
in the ambulance during the 10-minute
Journey to the hospital despite a fifth
unsuccessful intubation attempt a sixth
attempt by the emergency room physician
at the hospital was eventually
successful unfortunately it was too late
and Sarah was pronounced dead that same
night when questioned at the hospital
Ryan informed the police that he and
Sarah were alone at home that night he
mentioned watching a football game on
the downstairs TV while Sarah was taking
a bath at around 1 p.m. expressing
concern he conveyed to the police that
he had been afraid she might fall asleep
in the tub when asked whether Sarah had
fallen asleep in the bathtub before Ryan
responded negatively but noted that she
had a tendency to fall asleep in unusual
places despite Ryan's assertion to the
police that he found Sarah in the
bathtub and believed she had fallen
asleep law enforcement grew
suspicious upon arriving at the house
they noted Sarah's body was dry yet her
hair was wet detectives perceived
inconsistencies in Ryan's account
particularly in relation to the 911 call
where he described finding Sarah lying
face down in the tub there were doubts
arising from a potential contradiction
as they believed Ryan had told the nurse
of the hospital that he found her lying
face
up during the search of the widmer's
residence law enforcement noticed
several discrepancies that raised
additional concerns the bathroom floor
bathroom mat and the towel on the floor
were all dry the bathtub itself was
mostly dry with only a few droplets
observed around the drain notably there
were no wet towels found in the house
further inconsistencies in Ryan's
narrative were uncovered by the
police Ryan had initially informed them
that he was watching a Cincinnati
Bengals football game on the TV
downstairs while Sarah took a bath
however upon inspection the downstairs
TV was not set to that channel instead
the bedroom TV was tuned to the
specified Channel additionally police
discovered blood stains on the bedroom
carpet where Sarah had been found lying
on the floor when they arrived these
findings heightened suspicions and
contributed to the growing list of
inconsistencies in Ryan's account of the
events that transpired that night Dr
Russell up to Grove the Warren County
coroner conducted the autopsy on Sarah
his findings revealed that Sarah's cause
of death was drowning notably there were
several physical injuries documented
during the examination including faint
bruising on the right side of her
forehead a peal Hemorrhage on the inner
surface of her eyelid bruising on the
left side of her neck a contusion on the
back of her neck an abrasion on her left
armpit and bruising and lacerations to
her upper lip Sarah exhibited deep
muscle hemorrhaging in the anterior part
of her neck and contusions to her
scalp drct upag Grove concluded that
Sarah's death was a result of homicide
he expressed the opinion that the
injuries Sarah sustained occurred before
her death and were inconsistent with
injuries typically associated with CPR
procedures
the toxicology reports confirmed the
absence of prohibited substances or
alcohol in Sarah's
system remarkably on the 13th of August
2008 a mere 2 days after Sarah's death
Ryan was arrested on a charge of
aggravated murder it was the
prosecution's case that Sarah died as a
result of drowning it was their case
that the cause of Sarah's death was not
so much as dispute but the manner in
which she she died was how did she
drown the prosecution contended that the
evidence from the 911 call the crime
scene and Sarah's injuries collectively
pointed to Ryan as the perpetrator of
her death their argument centered on the
assertion that he had forcibly held her
underwater causing her to drown in the
bathtub during the investigation the
police dusted the bathtub for
fingerprints and identified streak marks
believed to have been created by human
hands primar located in the middle of
the tub employing a superglue fuming
process and reflected ultraviolet
Imaging they detected finger marks and
smear marks additionally a forearm
impression was discovered on the bathtub
determined to be made by an adult male
based on the testing of hair
follicles however the timing of when the
impression was made could not be
ascertained the prosecution further
contended that the absence of wetness
inside the bathroom was inconsistent
with the scenario Ryan described if
Sarah had drowned and Ryan had pulled
her out of the bathtub the floor and
other items in the bathroom should have
been wet they emphasized to the jury
that when the police arrived just
minutes after Ryan's 911 call Sarah's
body was dry the prosecution pointed to
the details in the 911 call asserting
that Ryan had divulged too much
information and was orchestrating the
call suggesting a level of
premeditation the prosecution presented
a narrative to the jury suggesting that
a violent confrontation occurred in the
vidmer home on that fateful night
although the reasons behind it remained
unknown to support their case they
brought in an expert witness who
testified that it was highly improbable
to fall asleep and drown in a bathtub
without the influence of prohibited
substances or
alcohol according to this testimony the
sensation of water on the face or the
triggering of the gag reflex would
typically awaken an individual and
failing that a decrease in oxygen levels
would prompt the person to wake up
coroner up grve who conducted Sarah's
autopsy was called by the prosecution to
provide his expert opinion on the events
of that night he testified that for
Sarah to have a dry body and wet hair a
plausible explanation would involve her
head being pushed over the edge of the
bathtub toilet or sink this act might
have occurred either forwards or
backward within running water or
submerged in full
water the heart of the prosecution's
case was the assertion that Ryan
deliberately held Sarah's Head
Underwater until she drowned and based
on this premise they argued that he
should be found guilty of her
murder in response the defense countered
that there was a lack of evidence to
support the claim that Ryan had killed
Sarah they emphasized the apparent love
between the couple and argued that there
was no discernable motive for Ryan to
harm Sarah according to the defense
those who knew Ryan had never witnessed
him displaying anger or raising his
voice Friends of the couple attested to
their happiness and shared belief that
they were making plans for a positive
future together to strengthen their
position the defense conducted their own
autopsy presumably aiming to challenge
or provide an alternative perspective to
the findings presented by the
prosecution's witnesses particularly
corer up to
Grove on August 15th 2008 2 days
following the initial autopsy a second
autopsy was conducted by Dr wner Spitz
who had been retained by the defense
although he concurred with the
conclusion that Sarah's cause of death
was drowning Dr Spitz expressed a
different opinion on the manner of death
stating he would have ruled it as
undetermined he observed various
injuries including those to her neck
arms near the crease of her elbow upper
lip nape of her neck scalp a tear in her
liver and hemorrhaging to her neck Dr
Spitz couldn't definitively ascertain
whether these injuries were the result
of
CPR consequently he asserted that he
would not categorize her death as a
homicide the defense argued that if
there had been a violent altercation as
suggested by the prosecution there would
have been evidence of it notably the
absence of injuries on both Ryan and
Sarah's unbroken or chipped Nails was
highlighted the defense also brought
attention to the presence of female DNA
found under Sarah's fingernails with no
match identified they contended that the
injuries observed on Sarah were likely a
consequence of the extended CPR and
multiple intubation attempts carried out
that night both inside the house in the
ambulance parked outside the house
during transport to the hospital and at
the hospital itself the defense posited
the theory that something medical such
as a seizure or cardiac ailment could
have been the underlying cause of
Sarah's death they also offered an
explanation for the seemingly
contradictory evidence of Sarah's dry
body and wet hair suggesting that skin
dries faster than hair in the initial
trial the jury found Ryan not guilty of
aggravated murder but convicted him of
murder however a few months later a new
trial was ordered due to concerns raised
by the defense it was discovered that
some jurors had conducted their own
tests regarding the time it took them to
dry after having a bath potentially
influencing their understanding of the
evidence Ryan's second trial occurred in
May
2010 however the jury was unable to
reach a verdict leading to the
Declaration of a
mistrial in January 2011 Ryan's third
trial commenced
introducing additional evidence into the
legal proceedings the defense aimed to
build a case suggesting that Sarah may
have had an undisclosed cardiovascular
or neurological condition that led to a
loss of consciousness resulting in her
drowning in the bathtub to support this
argument they presented testimony from
several medical experts who proposed the
possibility of such an underlying
medical issue however the state
countered these assertions by calling
their own medic IAL experts to challenge
and refute the defense's claims the
testimony from Sarah's co-workers
provided additional insight into her
health and daily
routine they recounted instances where
Sarah would sleep in her car before
starting work in the mornings and would
also go out to her car to rest during
her lunch
breaks colleagues further revealed that
she suffered from allergies and
experienced headaches and stomach pains
on at least one occasion her headaches
were severe enough to cause blurred
Vision prompting her to retreat to a
dark room until the symptoms
subsided Dr Benjamin Mesmer a dentist at
the practice where Sarah worked took the
stand and testified that he was present
on the day Sarah died he recalled that
she complained of a headache and stomach
ache on that particular day the
testimony of Sarah's friends painted a
picture of her tendency to fall asleep
in unconventional places such as during
a game or in the middle of group convers
ations the situation was significant
enough that one of her friends suggested
she might have narcolepsy a sleep
disorder characterized by excessive
sleepiness sleep paralysis
hallucinations and in some cases
episodes of cataplexy contrastingly
Sarah's mother Ruth andne Stewart
testified on behalf of the prosecution
she stated that she had never observed
anything unusual about her daughter's
sleep
patterns although Sarah did experience
headaches Ruth believed they were likely
the result of sinus issues according to
Ruth's testimony she spoke to Sarah on
the day she died as Sarah was heading
home from work and Sarah made no mention
of having a
headache Ruth emphasized that there was
no family history of seizures heart
disease or cardiac problems while Sarah
had a heart murmur as a baby and a cleft
pallet a June 2008 physical examination
report did not mention the continued
presence of a heart murmur additionally
there was no indication of any cardiac
ailment neurological defect or disease
in the report Jennifer crew's testimony
provided a significant and potentially
damning account according to her
statements she had contacted Ryan when
he was in prison after watching a DAT
line episode featuring his case she
claimed that on October 26th 2009 at
11:06 p.m. Ryan called her and confessed
to killing Sarah Jennifer testified that
Ryan said I did it I did it I killed
Sarah I did it in her testimony Jenifer
recounted that Ryan described a heated
argument with Sarah in their living room
focusing on issues related to his
alleged infidelity drinking smoking and
engagement with
pornography the argument purportedly
escalated upstairs where Sarah informed
Ryan that their marriage was over
according to Jennifer the confrontation
turned physical with Ryan allegedly
stating nobody leaves me nobody ever
leaves me and I mean nobody Jennifer's
testimony took a darker turn as she
detailed Ryan's alleged admission of
violence according to Jennifer Ryan
confessed to punching Sarah in the chest
during their confrontation causing her
to fall backward and hit her head Ryan
claimed to have blacked out and upon
regaining Consciousness he found Sarah
on the floor unresponsive and not
breathing with wet hair furthermore
Jennifer asserted that during the 911
call Ryan merely pretended to perform
CPR because he was aware that Sarah was
already dead rendering resuscitation
futle despite this shocking Revelation
Jennifer continued to have conversations
with Ryan after their initial
discussion it wasn't until after Ryan's
second trial ended in a mistrial that
she reported the incriminating
conversation to the police in response
to Jennifer's testimony the defense
sought to undermine her
credibility they presented evidence
regarding her past struggles with
prescription drug addiction and
convictions for misdemeanor theft aiming
to cast doubt on the reliability of her
statements and motives the defense
presented a challenging scenario arguing
that they could not definitively explain
what caused Sarah to drown that night
the defense urged the jury to consider
all the facts surrounding the case and
emphasiz ized that Ryan had no apparent
motive to harm
Sarah despite these arguments Ryan was
ultimately found guilty of murder and
sentenced to 15 years to life in
prison interestingly one of the jurors
from the third trial highlighted Ryan's
behavior in court as a significant
factor in their guilty verdict the juror
noted that Ryan displayed no reaction
when autopsy photos were presented in
court suggesting that this lack of
emotional response
influen the perception of his guilt what
do you think about this story share your
opinions in the comments thanks for
watching and for being with us take care
of yourself and your loved ones
