[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
ah
[Music]
your grace we found this man in the
streets slandering your name in front of
a crowd the Lord demands that heretics
like him must be executed wait there
there must be something else we can do
the punishment for treason has always
been death hasn't it yes but couldn't we
perhaps we could use him to serve labour
instead and let him continue spreading
his heresy
when do remember took your father some
time to deal with these transgressions
you learn to do so as well my young fara
[Music]
and you do anything to say for yourself
what more can I say my sons are gone
building your father's temple has ruined
my family and more are being worked to
death you've done nothing to put an end
to this you don't deserve to be queen
[Music]
and trust me this is the best course of
action
[Music]
it's getting dark
don't worry you made the right choice
Irv ordered to display his body outside
the wall can't see what happens to those
who speak against us no we will give him
a proper burial but but your grace right
we will put an end to the suffering of
my people but trust me this is the best
course of action see to it that it gets
done yes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
