everybody loves a good documentary sure
films are great but if you can learn
while being entertained
that's just a novel plus for example did
you know that the dots on top of a
lowercase letter J is called a tittle
there you go
doesn't that feel good to have learned
although to be fair a common mistake
perhaps is to believe that the word
documentary equates to truth the format
is after all subjects are just as many
lies and deceptions as fiction films are
but whilst some might see the
potentially dishonest nature of the
genre to be a flaw you could certainly
consider it to be one of the
documentaries greatest strengths its
ability to combine truth with art to
create something more something that
resonates and maybe even changes the
world there are thousands and thousands
of documentaries out there which makes
creating a list of 20 essential films
something of an exercise in futility
that said there are certain
documentaries that have had a noticeable
impact on the world the medium of films
and everything in between with that in
mind on will for culture and here are 20
documentary movies you must see before
you die
number 20 cartel land everybody knows
that there is a huge problem in Mexico
with drugs but cartel land released in
2015 to critical acclaim and an Academy
Award contender shows audiences aside to
that war that they may not have known
exist
that is to say Matthew hyneman's
gloriously cinematic documentary hones
in on vigilante groups on both sides of
the border who have taken it upon
themselves to fight back against the
cartel the result is a film that doesn't
necessarily give any answers or
solutions but puts viewers right in the
middle of the action including a few
gunfights as they're permitted to tag
along with two groups out to protect
their countries at any cost
number 19 zero Dreams of Sushi it might
seem strange to suggest that a
documentary about sushi makes for
essential viewing rest assured however
that watching David Gelb's film for just
a couple of minutes we'll have you
utterly convinced the reason for this
aside from the beautiful aesthetics is
all down to the subject Jiro Ono who's
often thought to be the world's greatest
sushi chef aside from an endlessly
fascinating character Jiro also happens
to be 85
years old he is unrivaled in his craft
and operates out of a tiny 10 seat
restaurant the people from all over the
world travel to visits after booking for
their table months in advance Jiro is a
perfectionist beyond all measure even in
his older years and watching him as he
creates and cooked sushi as if it were a
true art form is mesmerizing stuff
number 18 hearts of darkness a
filmmakers apocalypse
without question hearts of darkness a
filmmakers apocalypse is the definitive
documentary about the making of a motion
picture forget about the infamously
nightmarish shoots of films like jaws or
Blade Runner it all pales in comparison
to what Francis Ford Coppola had to deal
with during the making of his
masterpiece Apocalypse Now and it's all
here to witness in hearts of darkness if
you've ever thought about making a movie
this documentary will definitely make
you think twice about your ambitions
aside from the ever-increasing costs of
the film hearts of darkness details all
the major problems that plagued the
production of Apocalypse Now from Martin
Sheen having a heart attack to Coppola
threatening to blow his own brains out
number 17 man on wire sometimes a
documentary highlights a subject so
unbelievable that it near enough blows
your mind man on wire which chronicles
one Frenchman's madcap attempt to cross
the gulf between the two towers of the
World Trade Center using a tight rope is
one of those documentaries you really
have to see it to believe it
constructed like a heist movie man on
wire tells the story of Philippe Petit
an eccentric French trapeze artist who
decided to complete such an astonishing
feat of endurance in 1974 and the real
Wonder is that it took until 2008 for
someone to make a documentary about it
pieced together with humor and a real
affection for its leading man man on
wire is one of the most relentlessly
watchable documentaries ever made number
16 to be and to have such a sad and
poignant documentary is to be and to
have whilst also managing to be
beautifully observed and endlessly
uplifting at the same time well not as
well-known as some of the other films on
this list to be and to have hones in on
a small rural school in the French
countryside and the lone teacher mr.
Lopez whose unique methods inspire the
single class of children all of whom a
mixed age
between four and twelve mr. Lopez's
approach to teaching is truly touching
he respects his students and cares for
each and every one of them individually
nothing really happens in the film its
greatness stems from the way that it
depicts the day-to-day life of a group
of individuals and highlights mr.
Lopez's remarkable approach number 15
blackfish for years people went to Sea
World and countless other aquamarine
parks under the impression that the
animals there were cared for and looked
after blackfish is the documentary that
changed everything exposing the horrors
that take place behind the scene of
these theme parks of which so many
people were plainly oblivious to so much
so in fact that the backlash resulting
from black fish's release prompted
SeaWorld to announce plans to phase out
its world-famous Orca show number 14
Hoop Dreams Roger Ebert's named hoop
dreams of the best film of 1994 if that
isn't a good enough reason to go and
check it out immediately what is shot
over the course of five years and culled
from 250 hours of footage hoop dreams
tells the story of two African American
high school students who dream of
playing professional basketball this
gripping 171 minute documentary hooks
you in and refuses to let go as soon as
you're introduced to the two
protagonists you're invested in their
stories this isn't just about basketball
it's about life number thirteen last
train home last train home is the sort
of film that makes you feel very very
lucky shot over the course of several
years this documentary details the lives
of Chinese migrant workers who travel
annually to their homes to celebrate the
new year's holiday given that there are
a hundred and thirty million of them
their exodus makes for a harrowing and
often horrifying portrait of a way life
is experienced by a huge amount of
people aside from the many stunning
images of mass migration the makeup last
train home the film strength lies in the
way that it presents the dire
circumstances attaining to individuals
and their families in China number
twelve Grizzly Man without question
Werner Herzog's greatest documentary
film to date Grizzly Man is a harrowing
look at an individual who decided to
take on nature and paid the consequences
with his life while most
cumin trees in the man versus nature
vein tend to hone in on ill-judged
expositions to mountainous regions this
one concerns bears narrated in his in
expressive and often drawl bra variant
accents grizzly man tells the true life
story of one timothy treadwell a man who
came to be so obsessed with the animals
of the movies title that he went and
lived among them his mistake of course
came in his belief that he was one of
the Bears a viewpoint that ultimately
the Bears did not share and led to his
death it's easy to mock someone like
Grizzly Man but Herzog refuses to take
that path and if anyone understands the
connection between man and nature its
Herzog the result is a picture that is
unashamedly respectful of its subjects
as a portrait of an individual and a
Herzog Ian parable it's a real
masterpiece
number 11 Grey Gardens Grey Gardens is
just about the strangest documentary
ever made or at least its eccentric and
extraordinary subjects are two of the
strangest people ever directed by David
and Albert Maysles the film chronicles
the lives of two women both named Edith
Bale a mother and a daughter who live
out an incredibly weird existence in a
dilapidated mansion based in New Hampton
how they got this way provides one of
the film's big questions though the
documentary never answers this in a
particularly conclusive way once
incredibly wealthy both are now shown to
be living in relative squalor with very
little money at their disposal there are
cats and cat feces everywhere and
raccoons frequently invade the house as
for their own personal relationship
well it's quite sweet but admittedly odd
number 10 planet Earth okay so it's
planet Earth it had to be in the top ten
narrated by the great David Attenborough
and the most expensive nature
documentary series ever commissioned by
the BBC Planet Earth revolutionized what
a documentary could be it is just
incredible to watch animals doing their
thing in some of the most spectacular
settings on the planet
add to that a killer soundtrack by the
great Han Zimmer in Planet Earth - and
you've got not only the greatest nature
documentary of all time but also by far
the chillest
television you can watch outside of bob
ross and of course it reminds us all of
the essential lesson that we must take
care of our planet's no
nine Bowling for Columbine Michael Moore
is admittedly considered to be something
of a joke nowadays but there's no
denying that Bowling for Columbine
arguably his most famous film is a
documentary that absolutely everybody
must see in the film which centers
around the Columbians school massacre
that occurred in 1999 Moore explores the
relationship between Americans and their
guns and asks whether the country paved
the way for such a thing to happen Moore
takes a somewhat heavy-handed approach
at times and there are a few cringe
inducing moments scattered throughout
and yet it's hard to call this
documentary anything other than a pop
cultural milestone not only did it
influence the style of countless other
documentaries and helped to fashion a
new irreverent style but even more so
than many of the better films on this
list it has launched itself into the
public consciousness around such a
delicate and controversial issue number
eight The Cove positioned as a heist
movie of sorts The Cove is a remarkable
and gripping documentary that chronicles
a crack squad of activists who set out
to expose a secluded Cove in Japan where
every year hundreds of dolphins are
lured in and brutally murdered directed
by a former dolphin trainer who turned
against the industry and became an
activist much of The Cove is dedicated
to an intricate mission to plant secret
cameras in the film's titular location
as the Japanese attempt to thwart the
project the director and team are forced
into covert ops mode and must conduct
their business at night using stealth
and state-of-the-art equipment but it's
the latter scenes of the dolphins
actually being killed and the shots of
the water as it changes color from blue
to a vibrant red that will truly haunt
you in the aftermath number 7 crumb
Robert Crumb is exactly the sort of
person who deserves his own documentary
because what else do you do with a man
who apparently masturbates to his own
cartoons but that's not even the
weirdest part of crumb a picture that
really does have to be seen to be
believed
as the film moves forward it turns out
that the name of the film doesn't
necessarily just refer to Roberts there
are two other crumb brothers both of
whom are even stranger and more confused
and disturbed than the egotistical
artist of the title dark disturbing and
incredibly funny crumbs shocks and
entertains in equal measure as all
cesare introduced to the irreverent
cartoonists strange work and home life
number six don't look back Bob Dylan is
one of the most famous and influential
people to have ever lived and is often
credited with birthing modern music as
we know it love him or loathe him it is
futile to rally against old Bob and his
legacy and given that it felt necessary
to include a musical documentary on this
list as to cover all bases there is no
better than don't look back
shot in 1965 don't look back is an
intimate portrait of the then
twenty-something folk singer who was
well on his way to becoming a true icon
and phenomenon the documentary follows
the singer as he tours Britain and
though it's supposed to be a factual
work there's a sense that Dylan is
playing up his persona for the camera
number 5 the act of killing and the look
of silence
technically the act of killing and the
look of silence are two separate films
but they are so important to one another
and so heavily interconnected that it
seems appropriate to class them together
the documentaries focus on the
Indonesian genocide that took place
between 1965 and 1966 a period of
history that's considering how many
people died has received a shockingly
small amount of coverage the acts of
killing is by far the stranger and
perhaps more harrowing picture of the
two not least because the director
tracks down and interviews those
responsible for the killings who now
boast and walkers freemen today and
asked them to reconstruct their crimes
for the camera which they do of course
and happily but then something starts to
happen to charismatic killer Anwar Congo
as he slowly begins to come to terms
with his past number for Sands Saleh as
far as documentaries are concerned sands
saleh is a true original it's hard to
pin down what exactly Chris Marquez
insanely creative motion picture
actually is is it a travelogue a parody
of the documentary format a meditation
on memory what is for sure is that sands
Saleh is a joy to behold and that
there's nothing else quite like it as
the movie hops around the globe and
flicks between subjects observing
moments and rituals at a relentless pace
a woman narrates over the top of the
images as markers own surrogates
transferring his thoughts to a piece the
hits on and on
lievable amount of ideas and themes as
an ode to the imagination there are a
few that can beat this film number three
the thin blue line without a doubt one
of the most influential documentary
films ever made the thin blue line
centers on the arrest and conviction of
a man named Randall Adams who was
accused of murdering a police officer in
1976 the film changed the way that
documentaries were perceived and paved
the way for a new generation of
filmmakers the thin blue lines use of
reconstructions was deemed to be
revolutionary at the time as the lines
between feature film and documentary are
blurred many of the documentaries that
audiences take for granted today were
influenced by Morris's approach but
perhaps the most interesting thing about
the thin blue line is the way that it
paved the way for an innocent man's
release number two man with a movie
camera often misidentified as the first
documentary ever man with a movie camera
might as well have been it has the
associated sense of all that one might
attribute to such a thing as the titular
man and his camera take to the Soviet
streets in a madcap attempt to capture
absolutely everything and anything in
1922 indeed the camera in this
documentary is perhaps the most curious
of its kind there is no plan here so to
speak but each image tells a story of
its own the level of detail visible in
each and every shot is remarkable then
again what else do you expect from real
life
number one night and fog every person on
earth should see night and fog at least
once a film that was almost never made
at just 30 minutes night and fog sets
out to paint the Holocaust and the
concentration camps as an absolute truth
essentially the movie consists of a
series of still images played with a
narration by Michael bouquet his voice
filled with a repressed kind of anger as
life in the camps is laid out bare for
audiences to see the images are graphic
as across its short running time the
pain and suffering experienced by those
put into the camps is frankly depicted
we see mass graves bodies without heads
and children dead night and fog is art
yes but it's also probably the most
harrowing and part hitting documentary
about the
greatest crime of the 20th century it is
amazing to see a work of art of such
power in such a short amount of time the
defining aspect of night and fog however
and the true source of its power is the
questions that it forces us to ask
ourselves why did this happen how did we
let it happen and why do we do it to one
another it is impossible to watch
without feeling immense sorrow not to
mention a sense of hopelessness for the
human race at large it's timeless
important and brilliant
[Music]
