to find out more about why snipers were
so effective in Stalingrad Janet I went
to the British Army's sniper training
center in Wales
I would take on the role of a German
commander and Dan would be part of a
soviet sniper team what we have to set
up here Peter is your headquarters and
it would be far enough back from the
frontline to provide you with some
limited protection but it would be close
enough for you to influence the battle
my headquarters also had radio operators
working inside and a machine gunner to
protect me the tasks for Dan and his
sniper team was to disable the
headquarters either by shooting me for
my team in this exercise it would count
as a hit if the sniper could identify
the letter written on my helmet and then
far a blank run we also gave a letter to
the machine-gun century said the targets
were Q Quebec and D Delta
a sniper's first job was to find a
hiding place from where they can fire
the enemy so what are you seeing Dean
anything suspicious no yet keep looking
hopefully we'll better locate anyone
that's out there any suspicious movement
it could be anywhere a sniper in there
it could be anyone yeah
it would have been extremely difficult
in a large city that being so devastated
like Stalingrad to identify a sniper
moving around an imposition we'd managed
to get into our building without being
spotted
but to stay hidden where to change our
camouflage to blend in with the new
environment just like the snipers in
Stalingrad I think they would have
something just like they said they would
get different colors paint wood dirt and
just just paint the whole thing go and
in mind all the contacts all the firings
that was a really short distance so the
better they could blend in the better
for them even detective our plan was
that rather than attacking the front we
would cover the rear exit from the
headquarters ok you can see straight
from there that is a target area looks
to be like an age
it was now just a question of sitting
and waiting but without losing my
concentration as I'm sitting here I'm
realizing that one of the real
challenges to being a sniper is
maintaining that focus and the guys at
Stalingrad would be doing that for a day
or even longer and you just don't know
when the targets going to appear and as
a result you could it be you know as a
on edge the whole time
while we kept watch at the back to more
snipers the rest of our team climbed
into position in a small building
directly in front of their headquarters
but if they were in one of these
buildings they'd be using the shadow
inside the building to hide themselves
set back from the window nice and still
the team at the front were now in
position they decided to attack the
machine gunner because he was the most
immediate threat enemy on target saying
don't wait if he's a reasonably trained
sniper who's well practiced that you
would pretty much guarantee a hit with
the first round range 225 metres should
be able to achieve a shot on to your
center of mass at approximately 900
meters 900 900 meters short from Chester
hood
send it
don't talk it down we've got some
movement that would confirm kill
inside the building I thought I would be
safe from the snipers confirm one kill
don't age down all of the course I've
moved into the building with our target
inside the building we decided to use a
tactic used by snipers in Stalingrad we
called in artillery fire on today's
headquarters to force him out into the
open to Delta all call signs in building
request alpha 1 1 alpha fires x-ray zero
zero one five now of them
it would only be a matter of time before
got a direct hit from the mortise on to
this location we've got to move okay we
decided to move to our vehicle at the
back of the building and use smoke to
hide ourselves from the snipers at the
front
we now have smoke being front obscuring
of you
wolf is getting rather close
yeah I can see a queue on his head and a
shot add a shot here from somewhere over
there good this is where I think I might
have been dared so that's me done for
absolutely I'd no idea we were no idea
at all
we could see you know absolutely I mean
well it was quite funny because I had
absolutely no idea where you guys were
just demonstrates how a very small
number of people lightly equipped can
keep a serious command post in real
trouble
oh really really quite terrifying it
must have been
