when we think of pirates we picture
Brave adventurers swinging on ropes and
brandishing swords but forget those
movie scenes reality is way more
thrilling
and dangerous
real pirates taking on the U.S Navy you
bet an enigmatic attack on an American
warship has many puzzled what are they
hiding
what's the secrets behind the US Navy's
approach to combating piracy and who are
the real pirates of today
Pirates they're not just from old Tales
they're real and still a threat today
back in the Golden Age of piracy between
the 16th and 17th centuries many
Europeans became Pirates to escape
poverty
one scary punishment for pirates was
marooning leaving someone on a deserted
island with a bit of food water and a
loaded gun usually to make a tough
choice
modern pirates are different instead of
Swords they use guns and rocket
launchers
piracy has gone up 75 in the last 10
years
Waters near Somalia are especially risky
these pirates use fast boats fake
distress signals and tricks to get up
close to Big Ships
once on board they want Ransom money
sometimes in the Millions
fighting piracy is hard there are navy
patrols and onboard security but most
Sailors finish their trip safely
with pirates posing a grave threat to
Maritime trade and the safety of
seafarers the US Navy has developed a
multi-faceted approach to combat this
age-old scorch one of the key Strategies
employed by the Navy when it comes close
to such threats is the use of non-lethal
deterrence a widely employed non-lethal
weapon in the maritime industry is the
water cannon which serves as an
effective anti-piracy measure this
device propels a forceful and
impenetrable stream of water effectively
deterring pirates from attempting to
board Merchant vessels
additionally a water cannon has the
capability to rapidly fill pirate boats
impeding their movement and limiting
their maneuverability
enhanced chip hardening is another
crucial tactic employed by the U.S naval
vessels and commercial ships are
equipped with physical measures to make
boarding more challenging for pirates
razor wire anti-climbing barriers
reinforced doors and fortified citadels
create formidable obstacles
significantly increasing the difficulty
of pirates gaining access to ships and
their valuable cargo
the US Navy actively promotes best
management practices otherwise known as
BMP within the shipping industry
these practices include maintaining
high-speed Transit conducting
anti-piracy drills hosting Lookouts and
having Citadel plans in place
by adhering to these industry-approved
protocols ships enhance their
preparedness and response capabilities
reducing their vulnerability to any and
virtually all pirate attacks
another crucial Point worth noting is
that aerial surveillance plays a vital
role in the U.S Navy's anti-piracy
operations helicopters and unmanned
aerial Vehicles otherwise known as uavs
are deployed for extensive aerial
surveillance
these aircraft cover vast areas detect
suspicious activities and provide
real-time information to Naval vessels
and Maritime authorities
aerial surveillance basically increases
situational awareness enabling rapid
responses to piracy incidents and
ensuring effective deployment of Naval
assets
moreover collaborative information
sharing is another Cornerstone of the
U.S Navy's anti-piracy efforts
the Navy actively participates in
information sharing initiatives such as
the maritime security Center Horn of
Africa and the international Maritime
bureau's piracy Reporting Center or the
IMB PRC
by sharing intelligence incident reports
and piracy Trends with International
Partners the Navy contributes to a
comprehensive understanding of piracy
activities and facilitates coordinated
responses essentially preparing everyone
beforehand for what they may expect
the US Navy also places great emphasis
on capacity building and piracy Chrome
regions through training programs joint
exercises and the provision of equipment
and resources the Navy enhances the
capabilities of other Regional navies
and Coast Guards this collaborative
approach ultimately strengthens Regional
forces empowering them to effectively
combat piracy within their own Waters
and contribute to a safer Maritime
environment
furthermore the Navy actively engages in
raising public awareness about piracy
and educating Mariners on best practices
through websites Publications and
Outreach programs they disseminate
information to the maritime Community
empowering Mariners with the knowledge
to mitigate the risk of pirate attacks
and ensure their own safety
these tactics and strategies
collectively form a comprehensive and
adaptable approach employed by the U.S
Navy to combat piracy
in the ongoing battle against piracy
notable organizations like the
international Maritime Bureau or IMB for
short have emerged
the IMB assumes the critical role of
monitoring and documenting piracy
incidents worldwide offering invaluable
insights to governments and authorities
furthermore the United Nations has also
taken proactive measures by instituting
the United Nations convention on the law
of the sea which establishes a
comprehensive legal structure to address
piracy
the unclos mandates International
cooperation among nations in
apprehending and bringing Pirates to
Justice irrespective of their
nationality or the location of their
criminal activities
let's not forget about combined task
force 150. before you start wondering
what this is the CTF 150 is a
multinational Naval task force that
operates under the auspices of the
combined Maritime forces simply put that
its primary mission is to enhance
Maritime security and stability in the
Gulf of Aden the Arabian Sea and the
Indian Ocean
CTF 150 focuses on countering terrorism
preventing illicit activities including
piracy and smuggling and promoting a
safe and secure Maritime environment
the task force operates with
contributions from various Nations that
participate on a rotating basis
these nations provide Naval assets
including warships aircraft and
Personnel to conduct patrols
surveillance and interdiction operations
in the designated area of responsibility
the composition of the ctf-150 typically
includes ships and aircraft from
multiple countries fostering
International collaboration and
cooperation so as you can probably tell
by now the fight against piracy is a
joint effort and the US Navy plays a big
role in it
despite all efforts made by the U.S Navy
some encounters with pirates turned out
rather unideal
on March 18 2006 the Ticonderoga class
guided missile Cruiser USS Cape St
George otherwise known as the cg-71 and
the Arleigh Burke class guided missile
destroyer USS Gonzalez known as the ddg
66 were both on a critical Mission as
part of task force 150. standing as a
Resolute deterrent against the scourge
of piracy
in a gripping encounter that unfolded on
the treacherous Waters off the coast of
Somalia the U.S Navy found itself locked
in a life or death struggle against a
Brazen band of pirates
as the two warships patrolled the vast
expanse of the ocean their senses
heightened and an ominous side emerged
on the horizon a vessel towing a fleet
of menacing Skiffs approached with ill
intent
sensing danger a boarding party from the
USS Gonzalez bravely ventured forth to
investigate
but they witnessed a chilling sight the
pilots were emboldened and armed to the
teeth brandishing rocket-propelled
grenade launchers
in a shocking turn of events the Pirates
Unleashed a hail of gunfire upon the USS
Cape Saint George causing minor damage
the Tranquility of the moment shattered
and Chaos ensued swiftly the Cape Saint
George and the Gonzalez fueled by a
Steely resolve retaliated with a barrage
of small arms fire
The Clash of bullets and the crackling
of flames filled the air as the main
pirate vessel was engulfed in an inferno
and sank beneath the unforgiving waves
in a resounding Victory two smaller
Skiffs were captured and 12 Pirates were
taken prisoner alongside the Grim
discovery of one lifeless body
astonishingly a Somali pirate group
later claimed that 27 of their Coast
Guardsmen had been dispatched into this
ill-fated confrontation
the valley and Pirates who survived this
near catastrophic failure in their
victim selection process found
themselves in captivity their Destiny
uncertain
[Music]
the shocking part is that pirates are
constantly evolving their tactics they
employ various strategies to maximize
their success and evade detection
these emerging tactics include the use
of motherships to extend their reach we
told you this was shocking and that's
not all
they also hijack fishing vessels for
piracy operations taking advantage of
the jurisdictional challenges in
international waters and even hacking
into Shipping Company systems to gather
intelligence or disrupt operations
although Naval operations have been the
primary means of combating piracy in the
Gulf of Aiden and the Arabian Sea there
is a consensus that these efforts alone
are insufficient to fully address the
threat the vast area that Somali pirates
operate in exceeds the capacity of Naval
vessels to effectively Patrol
with approximately 25 Naval vessels
covering over 1.1 million square
nautical miles each vessel is tasked
with patrolling an average of 44 000
Square nautical miles
Pirates often shift their operations to
unpontrolled Waters when Naval forces
are present
recognizing these limitations several
supplementary counterpiracy initiatives
have been proposed including the use of
unmanned aerial vehicles for extended
surveillance Financial tracking and
Analysis to undermine pirate financing
and the prosecution and Punishment of
convicted Pirates as a deterrent
the US Navy also uses unmanned aerial
vehicles that can operate autonomously
following pre-programmed routes and
executing tasks without human
intervention this reduces risk to human
personnel as mentioned
usvs operate in high risk areas allowing
operators to maintain a safe distance
from potential pirate encounters and
mitigating the risk of harm or hostage
situations
equipped with various sensors cameras
and surveillance systems that enable
them to gather real-time information and
imagery
the collected data can be transmitted
back to a control center for analysis
and decision making plus the US Navy
utilizes Advanced sonar systems for
underwater surveillance and detection
these systems can detect submerged
threats such as pirate divers or
underwater vehicles
on top of all of this the US Navy
utilizes power projection as a crucial
tool in combating piracy by maintaining
a visible presence in piracy prone
regions the Navy serves as a deterrent
to potential Pirates
the deployment of Warships aircraft and
other assets showcases the Navy's
Readiness to respond swiftly and
decisively to Pirate threats
discouraging pirate activities through
the perceived risk involved
this proactive approach helps to prevent
attacks before they occur and
contributes to the overall reduction of
piracy incidents
furthermore power projection allows the
U.S Navy to conduct rapid response
operations in case of piracy incidents
Naval assets stationed strategically can
quickly intercept and disrupt pirate
activities providing critical support to
vessels under threat
Maritime interdiction operations
including the boarding and apprehension
of suspicious vessels contribute to the
disruption of piracy networks and the
prosecution of individuals involved
Additionally the Navy's air assets such
as carrier-based and Maritime Patrol
aircraft provide air superiority by
conducting surveillance and
reconnaissance missions
this aerial coverage by the U.S Navy
enhances situational awareness and AIDS
in the early detection of pirate
activities allowing for timely and
effective responses
the connection between piracy and
environmental issues is also significant
particularly concerning Maritime
activities and their impact on
ecosystems
Pirates often resort to unsustainable
and destructive fishing practices that
decimate fish populations
meanwhile pirate vessels also regularly
pollute the ocean through oil spills and
chemical discharges poisoning marine
life and habitats plus when pirates
anchor in sensitive areas like coral
reefs they destroy these fragile
ecosystems that support Maritime
biodiversity and Coastal resilience
however the U.S Navy is actively working
to mitigate piracies environmental
impacts through its Maritime security
operations
in addition to confronting Pirates at
sea Navy patrols aim to interrupt
illegal practices that pollute the ocean
and Destroy fragile Marine habitats
by securing coastlines and major
shipping lanes the Navy helps enable
sustainable fishing shipping and
offshore resource extraction economic
activities that depend on healthy oceans
in protecting Maritime ecosystems from
Pirates the Navy safeguards biodiversity
Coastal resilience and sustainable blue
economies ecosystem services that
benefit not just the United States but
the entire International Community
the Navy's role in Ocean governance
extends Beyond defending ships to
defending the health of the Seas
themselves
taking all of this into account do you
know of any other rules that the US Navy
plays both nationally and
internationally whether it be on land or
at Sea let us know in the comments below
the United States Navy remains steadfast
in its commitment to ensuring the Safety
and Security of the Seas by actively
combating piracy
through its robust efforts and
participation in multinational
operations such as combined task force
150 the Navy plays a vital role in
deterring and countering pirate
activities in vulnerable regions
their dedication is exemplified by
deploying Naval assets such as the USS
Howard and other vessels to Monitor and
Safeguard hijacked ships like the MV
feyna by maintaining a Vigilant presence
and collaborating with International
Partners the US Navy demonstrates its
unwavering determination to protect
Global Maritime trade Safeguard the
well-being of seafarers and uphold the
principles of Maritime security
we extend our utmost respect and
admiration to the courageous individuals
who serve in the United States Navy and
dedicate themselves to combating piracy
their unwavering commitment and bravery
in the face of danger are deserving of
our highest salute these men and women
selflessly put their lives on the line
to safeguard the Seas protect global
trade and ensure the safety of seafarers
their tireless efforts in the ongoing
battle against Pirates are a testament
to their unwavering dedication and the
values they uphold
we express deep gratitude to these Brave
individuals
if you like this video make sure to give
it a like and if you loved it then
please subscribe to our Channel by doing
so you will be showing us your support
which we truly appreciate and cherish
keep an eye out as we continue to bring
more entertaining and educational
content on the US Navy and other
Maritime topics so hit that Bell icon so
you'll receive a notification every time
we post a new video thank you and we'll
catch you in the next one
