[Music]
hi friends my name is Benjamin and today
I want to tell you another chilling
story on May 24th 2014 a Saturday
blessie goding Co a 56-year-old woman
completed her workday and was heading
home she resided in Northshore Auckland
New Zealand with husband of 30 years
Antonio
Ginko their connection traced back to
their childhood in CBU City Philippines
where they attended the same school over
the years they dated married and had
three children B Vincent and John in
2004 the family of five relocated to New
Zealand Auckland became a beloved home
for blessie offering her opportunities
to indulge in activities she cherished
such as exploration walking and
discovering new places she held a job
that brought her satisfaction and had
formed strong bonds with friends in the
area the Goden Co family embraced their
life in Auckland evident in their shared
experiences and joys just a few days
prior on May 20th blessie celebrated her
birthday with her children enjoying
lunch at a pub in greenh high and a
family dinner at Urban turban in wyard
quarter unfortunately Antonio couldn't
join them as he was on a work trip
abroad set to return on June 15th
blessie couldn't wait to see him again
they were a very close family and were
happiest when they were all together on
the 24th of May blessie godo concluded
her work at Tower insurance at 700 p.m.
although her regular working hours were
until 5:00 p.m. she had willingly taken
on a few extra hours of overtime without
pre-arranged transportation as her
co-worker bahula sha who usually gave
her a ride had left early earlier
blessie opted to take the birkenhead
transports 973 bus from lower Albert
Saint to burkdale
Road the bus stop was located
approximately 700 M from her home and
the short walk should have taken her
just 5
minutes however that evening blessie
never reached her destination Upon
returning home from work at 3:15 a.m.
the next morning blessy's daughter be
noticed her absence concerned be
contacted her two Brothers to inquire
about their mother's whereabouts but
they were
unaware in an effort to locate her be
used to find my iPhone app and
discovered blessy's phone on a grass
Verge in salesbury Road a mere 100 yard
from their home at 6 a.m. in the
vicinity of The Verge bee also found
blessie shoes and the Tupperware
containers she used for her daily lunch
at work when the police arrived they
initially considered the possibility of
a hit and run giv in the scattered
nature of blessy's belongings on the
verge they contemplated whether blessie
might have been struck by a vehicle and
was now disoriented and lost somewhere
however it became evident that a more
Sinister event had
transpired a young girl residing on the
same street reported hearing a woman's
scream at the time blessie disembarked
from the bus nearest to her home
Witnesses observed a BMW car overtaking
the bus carrying blessie leading the
police to scrutinize 28-year-old Tony
Douglas Robertson when questioned
Robertson claimed ignorance about
blessie and the circumstances
surrounding her
disappearance notably the police were
already familiar with Robertson as he
had a history as a convicted sex
offender and
abductor just 5 months prior he had been
released from prison and was under an
extended supervision order complete with
24-hour GPS tracking Robertson's
movements were monitored due to the
ankle brace GPS tracking device which
revealed his presence on the street
where blessie vanished around the same
time investigations also revealed that
he had spent time on the 24th of May at
esdale cemetery and returned the
following day this prompted the police
to search the cemetery where with the
assistance of a police dog blessy's body
was discovered 2 days after her
disappearance her remains were concealed
under pine scrub covered with foliage
and briis and wrapped in a sheet
tragically blessie had been subjected to
rape and fatal stabbing following the
discovery the police arrested Tony
Robertson charging him with rape and
murder despite the evidence he pleaded
not
[Music]
guilty the prosecution asserted that
Tony a stranger to blessie spotted her
walking home as he drove down burkdale
street according to their case he ined
intentionally struck her with his
vehicle resulting in her leg breaking in
two places allegedly Tony then picked
blessie up placed her in the back of his
car and drove to his burkdale apartment
just before his 8:00 P.M curfew to avoid
triggering any alarms the witness
testimonies aimed to support this
narrative one witness testified that
they observed blessie alighting from the
bus at burkdale and walking away briskly
they also noticed a white sedan-like
vehicle overtaking the bus and speeding
down salesbury Road the court heard from
an 11-year-old girl who lived on
salesbury road she recounted that on the
night of May 24th while she was cooking
dumplings with her sister she heard the
sound of a car and a high-pitch scream
at around 7:30
p.m. her testimony detailed it was
driving up the hill from esdale and it
stopped then I heard a high-pitched
scream from a lady and then there was
nothing after that the girl added that
the car then drove off in the direction
of burkdale
Road in the courtroom the prosecution
contended that upon Tony's return to his
apartment he parked his car in the
garage beneath his home and proceeded to
commit heinous acts against
blessie according to their case Tony
raped blessie strangled her and brutally
stabbed her in a frenzied and violent
manner ultimately Landing the final blow
to the
throat the prosecution further argued
that early the following morning Tony
wrapped blessy's lifeless body in a bed
sheet placed it back in his car and
drove to esdale cemetery to dispose of
her they suggested that this timing was
deliberate allowing Tony to avoid
violating his curfew forensic scientist
provided testimony stating that luminal
testing conducted in the area where
blessy's body was discovered revealed a
bloody path indicating the likely
dragging of a bloodstained object
through the grass the evidence suggested
that blessy's body had been transported
through parts of the cemetery before
being placed on the ground and dragged
to the location where it was eventually
found details of blessy's injuries were
presented in court by pathologist Dr
Carl Wen he testified that blessie had
suffered multiple deep stab wounds with
one being so violent that lyns from her
necklace were embedded in its depths Dr
Wen also said that when blasie was
stabbed in the throat it injured her
windpipe he emphasized that all of
blessy's injuries were inflicted while
she was alive as evidenced by the
presence of blood in her lungs
pathologist Dr Carl Wen testified that
blessie sustained numerous injuries
making it challenging to pinpoint a
singular cause of death he suggested
that a combination of factors including
strangling blunt force trauma from being
struck by the car stab wounds and inze
wounds likely contributed to her death
Dr Wen expressed difficulty in
attributing death to one specific injury
but opined that the stabbing probably
hastened her demise the court learned
that blessie suffered various blunt
force trauma injuries such as broken
ribs legs teeth and abrasions consistent
with postmortem
dragging Dr Wen proposed that blessie
was likely strangled first as a means of
subduing her followed by the stabbing
and insize wounds
evidence of manual strangulation was
presented including bruising on her neck
a fractured thyroid and broken
capillaries in her eyes according to Dr
wyen blessie might have survived being
struck by the car with prompt medical
assistance however instead she sustained
further injuries including sharp force
injuries leading to significant
bleeding when questioned about defensive
wounds Dr Wen noted that there didn't
appear to be any explaining to the jury
that such absence is not uncommon in
cases where the victim succumbs to
violence Dr Wen also informed the court
that samples from blessy's body
underwent DNA testing revealing the
presence of Tony's seminal fluid on her
body this testimony added crucial
forensic evidence to the prosecution's
case the court was informed that Tony
wearing a GPS anklet at the time had
been at esdale Cemetery hours before the
murder occurred occurred the prosecution
argued that this indicated premeditation
contending that Tony was scouting for a
location to hide a body they asserted
that he had planned the murder in
advance selecting the burial site before
choosing his victim the GPS data also
revealed Tony Revisited the cemetery
early the next morning leading the
prosecution to believe he dumped
blessy's body at that time crown
prosecutor Michael Walker underscored
the significance of these visits
suggesting they demonstrated that the
defendant was planning to kill someone
and that the trip to the cemetery was
for scoping out where to dispose of the
body the court heard that blood was
discovered in Tony's car and a knife
along with some of blessy's belongings
were found buried in the rear of his
property the knife bore traces of
blessy's blood evidence of damage to
Tony's BMW was presented in court
detective Constable Shane pagee
testified that the vehic vehicle showed
recent signs of damage a majority of the
rear passenger seat belt was missing
when I dismantled the seat belt being
the Anchorage point there was about a
meter I think 940 mm of the seat belt
was missing it had been cut detective
further testified about additional
damage inside Tony's car including cuts
and scratches on the leather seating in
the back he noted a significant area of
replaced foam inside the back seat and
blood found on the passenger's seat and
in the car's trunk autog Glazier told
the court that on May 26th he was
summoned to Tony's residence to repair a
broken BMW
windscreen he found it unusual that the
wind screen had already been removed
from the car and he observed blood
inside the
vehicle when he inquired about the cause
of the damage Tony claimed it happened
while joking around with
friends according to Tony a friend
slipped on the Bonnet and crashed
through the glass sergeant from the
serious crash unit testified that he
believed blessie was intentionally
struck he suggested that she was hit
while walking on the pavement basing his
belief on the discovery of a tire
imprint on the verge near where her
belongings were found in the defense's
case Tony admitted to causing blessy's
death but asserted that it was
accidental and not premeditated
according to his defense Tony claimed to
have panicked after accidentally hitting
blessie and then inflicted the injuries
found on her body to make the incident
appear like a random attack he
maintained that all injuries were
inflicted
postmortem during the trial Tony
dismissed his legal team and chose to
defend himself Tony told the court that
he denied the prosecution's version of
events and emphasized that he panicked
after The Accidental
Collision he argued that putting blessie
in his car and driving home was solely
to comply with his curfew
I put her straight in my car to comply
with my curfew that demanded I be there
at 8:00 p.m. and stay there until 6:00
a.m. Tony contended that the prosecution
was wrong in asserting premeditation
emphasizing the absence of witnesses to
the car
accident he explained his presence at
the cemetery on May 24th and 25th by
claiming he was trying to buy prohibited
substances regarding the DNA evidence
Tony argued that it was microscopic
topic and scientists had difficulty
isolating and testing it the defense
presented contrasting opinions on
blessy's injuries from another
pathologist Dr Chapman who disagreed
with Dr wen's
findings Dr Chapman's report read in
court suggested that blessy's neck
injuries particularly the fractured
thyroid could have been caused by
another blow to that area the report
stated that the bruising on blessy's
neck did not appear to be from
fingertips Dr Chapman's differing
opinion particularly regarding the
likelihood of blessie inhaling her own
blood aligned with Tony's defense that
he caused the stab wounds postmortem to
simulate a random attack during his
testimony Tony claimed that when he
placed blessie in his car he believed
she was already dead he asserted that he
orchestrated the scene to look like a
random attack due to being under the
influence of methamphetamine at the time
Tony also denied the rape allegations
arguing that the DNA evidence
specifically his seminal fluid found on
blessy's body resulted from
contamination and police
malpractice however the jury did not
accept Tony's version of events and
found him guilty of both rape and murder
subsequently Tony received a life
sentence with a minimum non-parole
period of 24 years along with preventive
detention for the rape in New Zealand
preventive detention is an open-ended
jail term allowing for indefinite
imprisonment or recall at any time Tony
appealed the verdict asserting that
blessy's death was accidental and
contending that the jury should have
been given the option to find him guilty
of
manslaughter the appeal was rejected and
a subsequent attempt at the Supreme
Court also failed as it was determined
that Tony had not presented anything
during the trial to indicate that a
charge of manslaughter could have been
considered he was denied further leave
to appeal the revelation of Tony's
criminal Past after his sentencing
provided a stark context to his
actions Tony had been granted name
suppression during the trial concealing
his previous convictions for child
sexual
offenses the details of his criminal
history were kept from the jury in 2005
when Tony was just 18 years old he
committed a heinous crime in Tanga he
kidnapped and molested a 5-year-old girl
act on Instinct a local officer
suspected Tony's involvement found him
with the girl and discovered the
distressing scene with the child's pants
down Tony was found guilty of seven
charges including indecent assault and
attempting to abduct two other children
he was sentenced to 8 years in prison
for these
crimes released in December 2013 merely
5 months before blessy's tragic murder
Tony breached the conditions of his
release twice within a short span
as a result he was considered a danger
leading to an extended supervision order
mandating a decade of monitoring and a
24-hour GPS tracking anklet Justice
Edwin Wy the judge overseeing this case
expressed serious concerns about Tony's
propensity for
harm I am satisfied that Mr Robertson
poses a very considerable risk indeed I
consider that it is likely that he will
commit an indecency on a child under the
age of 12 Years years and that he will
abduct a child for the purpose of sexual
connection the evidence compels the
conclusion that he is impulsive and that
he is unable to control his anger and
aggression Mr Robertson has a
predilection for and a proclivity
towards sexual offending he has shown No
Remorse indeed he continues to deny it
the tragic circumstances surrounding
Tony's release the monitoring order and
the subsequent violent attack on blessy
go Co caused profound pain and anger for
her family the fact that Tony despite
being monitored with a GPS anklet was
able to commit such a heinous crime
added to the grief of blessy's family
who believed that the system had failed
to protect them a government report was
conducted to examine the handling of
Tony's Case by the police and
Corrections however the report found no
fault on their part and concluded that
Tony alone was responsible for blessie
despite the lack of blame signed to the
authorities the report made 27
recommendations for improving the
management of high-risk offenders
blessy's husband Antonio expressed
disappointment and Devastation at the
inquiry's findings stating that he
believed Corrections did not have the
capabilities to manage high-risk sex
offenders and that in his opinion the
offenders managed the
system the Department of Corrections
Minister noted that Tony had served his
full 8-year prison term for the previous
offense and had been denied parole
multiple times due to his lack of
remorse however residents of burkdale
Auckland were not informed of his
release into their
community in a statement released by The
New Zealand Police Antonio expressed the
profound loss his family was
experiencing blessie is the light of our
home and without her we will be lost in
darkness right now we are just trying to
pretend that everything is okay but deep
inside we are broken hearted we have
been robbed she is Gone Too
Soon what do you think about this story
share your opinions in the comments
thanks for watching and for being with
us take care of yourself and your loved
ones
