[Music]
the third century BC was a notoriously
violent time filled with Titanic clashes
and amazing personalities Alexander's
conquests gave way to a period of
constant warfare between his Seleucid
tal meg and Antigonus successes while
the rising Roman juggernaut began a
series of conquests to unite the Italian
peninsula and fought its Carthaginian
rival paving the way for future
dominance India during this period was
also experiencing revolutionary change
which culminated in the rise of the
mauryan empire and the reign of Ashoka
the great this video is sponsored by
Imperator Rome the newest historical
grand strategy game from Paradox
Interactive build a glorious Empire out
of blood and marble take the reins of
power over any of hundreds of ancient
nations including Rome and Carthage as
you slowly expand to dominate the
classical Mediterranean Europe and India
expand trade build roads and command
armies on the most detailed map ever
made for a paradox game but keep an eye
on your generals and governors some of
them will increase their own power and
plunge your land into Civil War
enjoy the panoply and majesty of the
world of Caesar and Hannibal in
Imperator Rome coming April 25th you can
support our channel by buying the game
via the link in the description in 326
BC Alexander the Great crushed the Hindu
Kush mountains and entered India for the
first time calling his veteran army to a
halt at the Indus River and demanding
that to rival kings in the region on
face and poorest come to him and submit
on face of tekzilla'
surrendered to Alexander but poorest of
perova resisted and forced Alexander
into a fight
Mattek battle at the hyde aspies river
which he won nonetheless wishing to
conquer all india Alexander marched
onward but his army mutiny dat's the
high fascist River and he was forced to
withdraw to Babylon their refusal to
march on was in part due to rumors of a
massive Indian kingdom possessing
innumerable legions further to the east
this was the Nanda Empire centered on
the magadha region which supposedly
fielded a colossal force of 250,000
infantry cavalry chariots and war
elephants though he had retreated
Alexander's conquests had destabilized
northern India a fact which would play a
key role in what was to come
once the historical shroud falls away
once again we see in 320 BC that it was
a man named Chandragupta Maurya who
stood victorious this Indian conquerors
origins are not clear but less favorable
Brahman sources state that he was a
sudra a peasant or serf whilst more
favorable buddhist texts designate him
as a member of the prestigious Kshatriya
or warrior caste he likely knew about
Alexander's stunning conquests and was
given a crash course in ancient warfare
tactics and geopolitics which he would
use to conquer his own empire having
gathered followers he initially attacked
the nanda empires capital but failed a
few times then he changed his tactics
and conquered the northwestern lands
which had been weakened by Alexander
using his subsequent control of these
prosperous regions to cut off supplies
to the capital resulting in the fall of
the nanda dynasty
after establishing his realm he fought
decisively defeated and made an alliance
with Seleucus famously gifting him 500
war elephants in exchange for peace and
the hand of seleucus daughter in
marriage
Chandragupta successor bindusara
continued his father's Weis domestic and
foreign policies such as his friendship
with Seleucus and his religious
tolerance in addition he thrust south
into the Deccan Plateau and expanded the
Empire it is the second of Bindusara
three sons who is the subject of this
video Ashoka whose eldest brother was
sue Zuma and whose youngest brother was
tisha it seemed as though the future
mauryan emperor at this point had no
chance of ever inheriting the throne for
one his mother supid Rangi was a
commoner while the crown prince and
favorite child
Susan burrs mother was a royal princess
nevertheless Indian princes were often
sent to govern faraway provinces and
Ashoka was no different at the age of 18
the young Mauryan royal was sent to the
cosmopolitan silk road hub of Taxila to
quell a revolt a task he supposedly
accomplished quickly the nature of
taxila as a scholarly and cosmopolitan
settlement where intellectual debates
were often had among different faiths
would have improved a shoka's knowledge
of the world as well as making him more
tolerant and sophisticated his next
appointment was at the important city of
Wu Jie capital of Avanti province the
high quality of the governorship that
Ashoka provided is shown by the fact
that he was entrusted with this station
that of administering a crucial region
connecting the capital city and the
coast it was in this new station that
Ashoka fell in love with Devi the
daughter of a trader interestingly she
was a member of the Secchia clan the
clan of Siddhartha Gautama the Buddha
himself it is widely thought that she
was a Buddhist upon bearing Ashoka his
two children their son Mahendra and
their daughter sang
this relatively peaceful life would come
to an end when in 274 BC emperor
Bindusara passed away what happened next
is the subject of much debate but it is
thought that a brief four-year civil war
occurred between Ashoka and his brothers
by acting decisively and swiftly
occupying the capital city and because
he was supported by his father's
ministers Ashoka reigned victorious over
his brother and was crowned as emperor
in 270 BC the same year Hannibal Barca
was born in Carthage after he had
ascended to the throne Ashoka continued
a policy of expansion and conquest one
of the reasons for this persistent
policy of warfare was that in this
period all Indian rulers wished to be
regarded as the chakra Vartan the king
of kings by their royal rifles practical
and economic reasons were also important
as taxes were the Maurine empires main
source of revenue the more land a king
conquered the more taxes he gained
however the more administrative and
military expenses would also pile up
leading to an endless cycle of violence
so it was that in the year 262 BC the
massive Mauryan army marched into the
kingdom of Kalinga their past successes
would likely have made them confident of
an easy victory but the king and his
army faced a tough grinding conflict
against a doggedly courageous enemy it
is said that Ashoka eventually won the
war not because Kalinga surrendered but
because the carnage was so terrible
after the final battle the victorious
monarch stood amongst his dead and dying
foes on the battlefield most monarchs
would have simply rejoiced in the grim
victory but Ashoka in this moment felt
horror and remorse it ended up being the
key moment of his life
supposedly 150,000 were there from
captured 100,000 were slain and many
times that died from famine and disease
more than just being horrified by the
direct results of the devastation he had
Ashoka also was acutely aware of the
tragedy that struck those left behind
the young sons left without fathers and
poor mothers who had been robbed of
their sons their families and loved ones
the educated and sensitive Ashoka
appears to have been made truly aware of
the real cost of war even admitting
publicly what no victorious ruler ever
had before
that he felt remorse on having conquered
Kalinga declaring that even one
hundredth or one thousandth part of
those who were slain died or captured in
Kalinga is considered regrettable by the
beloved-of-the-gods this was clearly not
the same man speaking who had
annihilated his brother and had seized
the throne by blood rather it was a
changed man finally admitting to his
mistakes and thinking on the futility
and tragedy of war henceforth said the
king he was not going to be provoked
into bearing arms again and also
dedicated his life and huge wealth
towards building a society where people
lived by the rules of virtue and good
moral behavior this abrupt change of
heart gradually led Ashoka to the
teachings of Siddhartha Gautama the
Buddha who had preached the same values
of peace non-violence and benevolence
two centuries earlier Ashoka had likely
known of Buddhism from an early age as
his wife was an adherent of the Buddhist
teachings and the faith was popular
within certain segments of the
population however he was the first King
in history to convert to this apparently
revolutionary religion contrary to watch
popular legends depict Ashoka did not
instantly convert to Buddhism after his
change of heart on the field of war but
thoughtfully and practically chose a
slow path which would benefit both him
and the welfare of his subjects
particular care was taken to remain
tolerant of the two other dominant
Indian
religions the Hindu Brahmanic faith and
Jainism in one of his major edicts
carved on a rock
he stated that should one blame other
religions or over glorify one's own
religion they are instead doing harm to
it an act which should not be done he
began to study under Buddhist monks and
two years later was accepted into the
Sangha the Buddhist Order his tutor was
a monk named PQ loopty of Mathura who
took the King on a pilgrimage of all the
important sites in their shared faith
such as lumbini where siddhartha gautama
had been born board gaya where he had
achieved enlightenment sarnath where he
had delivered his first lecture and
Kushinagar where he had died and gained
nirvana at all of these places and more
Ashoka erected pillars and carved rocks
with his edicts and royal orders these
proclamations were routinely read out to
the illiterate population by the
Empire's officials and appeared to be
personal messages from Ashoka himself
clearly in his own words it is also as
though the King's voice speaks to us
2500 years later when we read them today
his change in faith also changed his
role as the king rather than desiring
material gain which so many kings had in
the past
he now sought that his children obtain
every kind of welfare both in this and
the next world and dictated that
reporters could come to him with the
people's business wherever he might be
at whatever time despite all of this
piety and benevolence we must always
keep in mind that Ashoka was an emperor
above all else not a religious teacher
or a philosopher he had the duty of
running an empire and this was not
always a job which led to peaceful
outcomes there was a serious danger that
once Ashoka supposed pacifism had been
announced
the provinces would rebel and
neighboring Kings would invade sensing
weakness in the Mauryan leadership
however the emperor while he had given
up on aggressive conquest would
reluctantly but fiercely defend his
empire and refused to disband his army
every rebellion would still be put down
brutally and any foreign invader would
be met with devastating military force a
fact which he made clear to his own
subjects he also remained an almost
stern father-like figure benevolent and
caring but willing to inflict severe
punishment if necessary though his
engravings almost appear to plead with
his people not to force him to inflict
these penalties for example the forest
people or adivasi were told that despite
Ashoka's remorse he still had the power
and will to punish them for their
injustice 'as if necessary they should
he said be ashamed of their wrongs lest
they be killed
overall historian al bashyam stated that
while Ashoka could seemingly be a bit
naive he was still into fatigue herbal
strong-willed and imperious Ashoka also
worked hard to change the attitude of
his subjects not to force Buddhism onto
them but to spread his universally right
values the Emperor who had previously
enjoyed pleasure trips of hunting and
had wielded a mighty sword now went on
Dhamma atras or pious pilgrimage tours
during which he visited holy sites and
met his subjects he frequently talks to
local people to make sure they were
happy and would hear their compliments
or complaints about local officials in
this way he was the first Indian King to
think of the welfare of the poor rather
than just using them for tax revenue as
he stated the finest conquest is the
conquest of right and not might the
values he sought to spread were known as
Ashoka's Dharma a complex term which
essentially were rules of good behavior
in this particular context
for example Ashoka wished that people
would be obedient to parents and
teachers should behave properly towards
holy men relatives
servants friends and the poor and should
be kind and generous to the old and
vulnerable non-violence towards all
living creatures be they're humans birds
or animals was practiced one edict in
particular goes into detail about how
the Imperial kitchens will no longer
slaughter vast amounts of animals for
food in addition to preaching these
noble virtues to his people Ashoka also
sought to try his best to live by the
same tenets this was exemplified by his
thoughtfulness in the construction and
renovation of infrastructure he ordered
that shade trees be planted along roads
for shelter from the Sun and rains that
mango groves be planted in order to
provide food and that watering places be
dug to quench a travellers thirst in 253
BC a great gathering of Buddhist monks
was held as Pataliputra hosted by the
king himself at this the 3rd Buddhist
Council a momentous decision was taken
to send teams of big shoes Buddhist
monks to other foreign kingdoms in order
to spread the teachings of the Buddha
these missionaries are said to have
reached as far as Kashmir Cantara the
Greek Hellenistic kingdoms North Africa
Burma and Sri Lanka one of the travelers
was a man named Dharma Rex Sheeta and is
designated as Jana or Ionian in the
texts so it is possible he was a Greek
convert the most famous missionary of
the period however was Prince Mahendra
Ashoka's firstborn son in 249 bc
Mahendra journeys to Sri Lanka then
called Tamra pani at the invitation of
King Devan and Piatt Issa an admirer of
Ashoka and a man who wished to learn
more of Buddhist principles the
subsequent mission to this realm was so
successful that it gradually became a
Buddhist country and remained so even
today such was the legacy of Ashoka the
great
when he died in 232 BC he was 72 years
old and had reigned for 38 glorious
years though his death would instigate
the lung decay of his earthly Mauryan
Empire which fell after another
half-century Ashoka had ruled over the
largest indigenous Empire in Indian
history with wisdom efficiency and most
importantly compassion Buddhism in the
21st century is a world religion because
the first steps to spread it to the
world were made by Ashoka himself
gradually as the centuries progressed
after Ashoka's death the faith travelled
along the Silk Roads as far as Tibet
China and even Japan despite its decline
in the predominantly Hindu land of its
birth writer HG Wells stated that Ashoka
shines and shines brightly like a bright
star among the thousands of other kings
and Majesties even unto this day we have
more stories to tell so make sure you
are subscribed to our Channel and have
pressed the bell button we would like to
express our gratitude to our patreon
supporters and channel members who make
the creation of our videos possible now
you can also support us by buying our
merchandise by the link in the
description this is the kings and
Generals Channel and who will catch you
on the next one
