I think I've been to the murders of it
at least eight kids that I can think of
off the top of my head and those are
some of the hardest ones patience is
gone you can't eat you can't sleep every
part of your life is disrupted
it was tough to remind me of my friends
kids and I couldn't get the screams in
my head for months
our bad day in the average bad day are
two different things
our bad day usually involves something
horrendous carnage and usually there's a
lot of blood and death got a call for a
VSA infant and the child was one and a
half two years old and the circumstances
were it was odd when we got there and
there's a little girl lying on the
ground and her mom was bawling and
freaking out on the phone doing CPR the
kid was blue and the dad standing like I
don't know what's happening it's over
there I remember I was driving home from
shift and I got a call from the platoon
chief from the other ships saying oh
yeah by the way that the dad snapped her
neck and murdered her you need to write
a witness statement after two weeks of
smelling rotting corpses in the
Philippines after Hurricane Honda we
were on a road going to deliver an
inflatable hospital up to the different
region and as we were driving down the
road a dog came out of the woods with a
small child's arm in its mouth that
hadn't found off of the corpse that's
been there for a month and that was its
food we got on scene and turned out this
kid have been cross-checked headfirst
into the boards had been unconscious and
we got there and he'd been removed from
the ice when I'm talking to this kid I'm
kneeling beside him looking in his face
he tells me he could feel everything
till they moved Oh
sorry seen that kids face just about
every facet of everyday life changes and
then the biggest thing to me is the loss
of innocence you realize that these
things happen in the world and they're
happening all around you all of the time
I felt like I was really armed to fight
fires to go to medicals to do all these
things but they didn't army with
something that I didn't realize was
gonna affect me so much was dealing with
the human nature of the calls and your
own emotions and how to react to these
things US police EMS we try and be the
tough guys and tough people and we are
affected by this it does have a
cumulative effect and it's not just one
call it's one call piled on the next
call piled on the next call and it's
like a house of cards and you try and
put that last card on the top and
everything comes down you're going to
experience things that you would wish
and hope that you never experienced
you're gonna see things that you can't
reverse that are going to be ingrained
on who you are lost myself into keeping
busy became a very much a workaholic
spent all my time just being busy so I
wouldn't have to think about things I
had a lot of guys that I work with who'd
been through similar things and and we
just we used to get drunk all the time
you just hung out with people who were
equally as damaged as you so you felt
normal and there was some comfort in
that so there was the black humor around
the fire hall people would joke about
things and that happens to this day I
learned really quickly though to just
kind of shut it all out and shut off
your emotional response to anything and
that transferred into my personal life
I didn't want to be anywhere near
anybody
just even my own family I just kind of
pulled back a lot if I know that there
were times that I have come home from
events that my children knew I was
coming home from that they they stayed
at a distance from me because they they
didn't know either what to say what to
do or if I was going to snap so to speak
and not be myself it's stuff that we
take for granted day-in day-out that you
see over of course your career and what
you do that it's taken away from other
people and what you realize is you're
responding to the worst event of their
lives but you're responding after the
incident already took place and there's
nothing you could have done by the time
you've reacted it had been called to
this call to change the outcome you can
just do the best that you can do while
you're there I know I've talked to
people and said listen like I went to
this counselor and changed my life and I
wish I went to her the first day I had a
bad call and I my life wouldn't be as
painful as it had to be we're a team
everything we do when we go out that
door we do as a team there's no one
individual that can do this job any part
of it on their own we do this together
and we need to hold on to that when we
come back to the hall you need to find
that network of people that you can
count on that you can trust that will be
there for you no matter what and those
are the people that you keep closest to
you throughout your career and
throughout your life I didn't really
know what to expect of the fire service
other than it was service based I mean I
know that through military movies that
there were such things as shell-shocked
and that sort of thing which you know
they're calling PTSD their experiences
that stick with you and I guess affect
you
sometimes long after those calls have
happened post-traumatic stress disorder
is an anxiety disorder that usually
develops after an individual has
experienced a traumatic event what are
the major problems is that when people
are involved in critical incidents it
may be their job to be dealing all the
time with critical events traumatic
events that to other people would seem
completely overwhelming they are
expected to deal with every day and
because that's part of their job
description it's very difficult for
people to say I think I've had enough I
have reached my limit it's not just the
firefighting division that deals with
these stressors that our Communications
Division as well as their the initial
call takers and a lot of times they're
on the phone with the victims they're
hearing things and they don't have the
ability to visualize or to have a
conclusion that we are allowed to
witness there are also some stressors in
fire prevention that they have to deal
with as can be in training if there's
ever accidents on the training ground so
it's important that we remember it's not
just the firefighting Division but all
of our divisions can't experience these
types incidents and that there is
support for all of them out there
they're not sleeping at night they're
not getting good rest they're becoming
agitated jumpy sometimes they become
angry irritable as anyone would be when
they haven't had good sleep they may
also lose their appetite or eat too much
people sometimes try to medicate
themselves with alcohol or drugs
some people will overeat some people
will overwork they may notice the
deterioration in their relationships and
they may also notice a deterioration in
their ability to focus function at their
job even if they've been working at the
same job for years unfortunately a lot
of guys self-medicated with booze
that was what was available it was sort
of socially acceptable or whatever you
know so if you had a bad call over the
course of your shift a lot of times to
go out guys to go for drinks afterwards
and you knew they were drinking more
than they normally would or acting
inappropriately just it was a now I
would recognize it as a stress reaction
to the call they'd been on I had no
patience whatsoever and I could fly off
the handle out my kids or my wife over
this the simplest silliest instances but
they didn't understand sleeping patterns
completely disrupted where I've not been
able to sleep because I can't turn my my
brain off when I put my head on the
pillow there's a lot of dark moments a
lot of lost sleep some nightmares a lot
of thinking like I say and some drinking
and you know curtness you lose your
temper faster and you don't know why
well it's probably cause you're stressed
because of the situation that you were
involved in but you just didn't have an
outlet to or the knowledge to know how
to fix yourself wait you're not alone
because there's so many people that are
going through the same sort of issues
that that I did and it all depends
whether or not you want to seek help or
not and I'm saying why not because it's
there so the resources available for our
members if they are in distress is our
team which we have roughly 20 people on
our team it's a critical incident stress
management team it's a peer driven by
ourselves and we have four members on
each squad so there's four squads as
well we have some members in the
communications division as well as the
training division and fire prevention we
have our CIS team now which is very much
helpful
the debriefings after work always you
know you're always open up to ask
questions talk to somebody
we are family at work you talk to that
person that's been on there your big
brother hey we've all seen you know
we've all done it we just don't know how
to in effect what doesn't what affects
me doesn't affect you what affects you
might not affect me at all each person
has their own little quirk and what will
set them off on what will cause them to
have some bad times and so some of those
things shared with another person who
knows exactly how it is in that kind of
context makes a great deal of difference
it also makes it possible to then
approach someone who's outside who can
be a counselor who that maybe is a
social worker a psychologist someone
who's outside who specifically helps
people debrief from these traumatic
events to help you I deal with them
differently now by opening up the
dialogue and I think the stigma of of
talking about anything other than being
happy on the job and you know I was a
good burn that's crazy call and actually
you know opening up about it
those walls are slowly breaking down and
like our peer counseling that alone is
is huge and offloading the stuff and so
you don't have to carry it and I mean
I've gone for counseling before just
recently in the last couple years and
that was kind of when I started to
address all this stuff I've been
carrying for a decade another important
facet that I find is support at home you
we try and make sure that somebody has a
spouse or sibling or a good friend that
is there that has that ability to
provide them support for when we are off
duty I think there's a a whole support
mechanism that you're leaving out of the
picture if you eliminate your family
from it that whole don't mention it at
home I don't think is a good idea
I believe talking to your spouse is as
important as talking to somebody from
who you work with again they're the ones
who live with you every
they're the ones are going to see the
change in your behavior they're the ones
who have to deal with the change in your
behavior it talking to them will give
them an understanding maybe as to what
what's bothering you
they're gonna be your biggest supporter
seen a lot done a lot and everybody will
drain your career and say it's now that
we have avenues to help us get over some
bad situations you know it's just like
any tool that we use on a firetruck you
know it's just another tool to help you
get through and heal yourself and take
advantage so if members are experiencing
distress whether on duty or off duty
they can get a hold of us as a team we
do have our numbers available on the
intranet so each squad has its certain
representatives from our team they can
look up their numbers on the intranet so
it's just available to our membership if
they're off duty and at home there is my
number and email that's always available
and I can then pass it on to another
member that is on their squad if they
need to deal with them directly or I can
afford them the information from
Chapelle our current EAP if they do have
to take that route most of the time
we're just doing defusing which is peer
support when we do go to that next stage
which is the briefings or if it's a
crisis one-on-one then we bring in our
mental health professionals that are
trauma counseled trauma counselors and
they're trained in that field so that is
their specialty and it does help break
the stigma when we do have known faces
in the halls for our membership there's
this fear of being different than the
rest of the people or seeming less tough
but the two toughest firefighters ever
met we're two captains I work with and
one I had for five years the other one
ice I work with for eight years on and
off it was a good friend of mine and
they both killed themselves and they
were the toughest guys I've ever met
so you know there's something to be said
to be able to open up and let it go
when you need to I think anybody around
here now is going to reach back and try
and help as much as they can
don't don't bottle it up and take it
home nothing Goods gonna come out of
that I think Oh opening up about this
dealing with it yeah just talking about
it can relieve a lot of the stress that
goes along with any of these issues
don't be afraid to admit that you need
out because people around you that are
close to you they see it and all it
takes is for you to be honest with
yourself and accept the fact that you're
only human to the fire service really is
that family that we all talk about and
there are people who really care and who
really want to see you succeed and I
think the it's important to know that
they're there but it's also important to
feel comfortable to reach out and let
them know when you need a bit of
direction or a bit of advice because
they won't know unless you tell them
you
you
you
you
