history is peppered with fascinating
facts about kings and queens who ruled
england who it's fair to say have had a
significant impact good and bad on the
world we live in history box is
currently taking a look at individual
kings and queens but in this video we're
going to whiz through history taking a
very brief look at 64 of them from the
wessex king egbert who was crowned in
802
right the way up to the current queen of
england elizabeth ii who was crowned
1150 years later before we get onto
egbert though let's take a brief look at
what came before more than 2 000 years
ago britain was occupied by several
relatively small celtic tribes then in
43 a.d the romans arrived and they
stayed for around 370 years before
leaving after that the anglo-saxons
arrived and established several rival
kingdoms these kingdoms existed for
around 400 years before one wessex
emerged dominant the aforementioned
egbert was one of the last in a long
line of wessex kings born in 770 he
ruled from 802 to 839 we're starting
with him because he won an important
victory against the then dominant
kingdom of mercier and so he set the
train in motion for the dominance of
wessex which in turn produced the first
english kings he was succeeded by his
son ethelwolf who ruled from 839 to 858
and was the father of one of england's
most famous early kings alfred the great
alfred was his youngest son though so
before he could take over his older
brothers ethel bald ethel bert and
ethelred ruled as wessex kings between
858 and 871 alfred himself ruled from
871-899
alfred's famous because at the time the
vikings had defeated most of the
anglo-saxon kingdoms and had almost
turned england into their own fiefdom
they'd already established danelore in
the north and were close to completely
overwhelming wessex and ridding england
of anglo-saxon kings once and for all
alfred stopped them
his son edward the elder who ruled from
899 to 924 defeated the vikings
conquering the southern part of dainlaw
edward's son ethelstone who ruled from
924 to 939 is our first king of the
english and obtained that title after
conquering danelore sending the vikings
packing and uniting all anglo-saxons
ethelstone didn't produce an heir so he
was followed by his brother edmund the
first who ruled from 939 to 946 and who
initially lost part of the north of his
kingdom before regaining it edmund did
produce a male heir called edwig but at
six years of age he was too young to
take the crown so instead edmund's
brother edrid reigned next from 946-955
after edward died edwig took over the
reigns ruling from 955 until 9-5-9 edwig
is famous for having fallen out with the
archbishop of canterbury at the time
after he had a threesome on the night of
his coronation with his girlfriend and
his girlfriend's mother yes you heard
that right edgar the peaceful came next
ruling from
959-975 and he's famous for being the
father of two english kings edward and
ethelred edward styled edward the martyr
ruled from 975 to 978 but was brutally
murdered at the age of about 16 after he
was stabbed sitting on top of his horse
the murderer was never captured and
there were rumors that his stepmother
was behind it after all edward's death
meant that his half-brother her son
ethelred succeeded to the throne ethel
read the unready as he came to be known
ruled from
978-1016 he dealt with renewed viking
raids by paying them off rather than
fighting them he also paved the way for
the 1066 norman invasion by marrying
emma of normandy she was william the
conqueror's great aunt something that
would enable william to later claim that
he had a legitimate right to sit on the
english throne though ethel read ruled
until 1016 in 1013 the king of denmark
swain forkbeard invaded partly in
revenge after his sister was killed in a
massacre ordered by ethelred swain had
himself crowned king of england and
ruled for 41 days in 1013 before dying
ethelred's son edmund ironside ruled
next in 1016. unfortunately throughout
his short reign he was forced to fight
swain forkbeard's son knude for the
crown and he died after just seven
months possibly of battle wounds after
that the way was open for canute who
reigned from 1016 to 10 35. canute was a
learned man and is known for having
ordered the tide back the sea washed
over his feet proving his point that
kings were not infallible canute's son
harold hereford reigned after he died
from 10 35 to 10 40. then kinute's other
son harthak newt ruled until 10 42
before keeling over a friend's wedding
and dying next ethel read the unready
son by emma of normandy sat on the
throne edward the confessor would be the
last king from egbert's house of wessex
dynasty and he ruled from 1042 to 1066 a
devoted religious man who was later
venerated as a saint edward ended his
reign childless and he's supposed to
have nominated william the conqueror as
his successor instead of william taking
over though a powerful wessex earl
harold godwinson stole a march had
himself crowned and ruled for nine
months in 1066 harold would be the last
anglo-saxon king to rule having
reportedly been promised the crown by
edward the confessor the duke of
normandy swooped into england and
defeated him at the battle of hastings
changing england's destiny forever by
installing a new norman regime and
ruling from 1066 until 1087. william the
conqueror's son william rufus or william
ii ruled next from 1087 until 1100 when
he was shot through his lung with an
arrow whilst out hunting after that
rufus younger brother was crowned henry
the first and he ruled from 1100 to 1135
his son william adeline drowned in the
white ship disaster of 1120 leaving him
without an air henry tried to install
his daughter matilda as his successor
matilda had married into a powerful onju
family something that would later lead
to a dynasty of plantagenet kings when
henry died though his nephew stevens
stole in ahead of her and had himself
crowned king plunging england into a
civil war as matilda fought to claim the
throne stephen ruled from 1135 to 1154
and he's the first of our kings to have
been placed in prison after being
captured by matilda's forces though he
was later released he was succeeded by
mathilda's son who ruled as henry ii the
first of the plantagenet kings from 1154
to 1189 expanding his empire into
ireland and deeper into france but also
causing a crisis when his men murdered
the archbishop of canterbury thomas
beckett henry's son richard ruled next
from 1189 to 1199 he was the crusading
king who led forces against the mighty
saladin during the third crusade to
reconquer jerusalem he was also captured
and handed over to a rival european
monarch and spent 14 months in jail
before being freed having produced no
children richard the first was succeeded
by his brother john who ruled from 1199
to 1216. john lost his father's lands in
france and developed such a bad
historical reputation it would lead him
to be cast as the villain in the robin
hood legends jon also fell out with his
nobles who forced him to sign magna
carta a legal document cited today as a
touchstone for all modern freedoms
john's son ruled next as henry iii from
1216-1272 like father like son henry
annoyed the english barons by favouring
french courtiers and proved fairly
useless on the battlefield the barons
forced him to sign the provisions of
oxford which created a council of
advisers to oversee the king's
administration henry iii son edward
ruled next from 1272 to 1307. edward the
first proved more effective and is
credited for having accepted the baron's
reforms and for calling the first ever
representative parliament to help him
rule however edward the first has a
terrible historical reputation as he's
also known for stripping jews of their
property and expelling them from england
and for suppressing scottish revolts and
killing the scottish independence
warrior william wallace edward's son
ruled next from 1307-1327
styled edward ii he proved unpopular
with the barons after promoting his
friend possibly his lover piers gaviston
he was also routed by the scots under
robert the bruce at the famous battle of
bannockburn which secured scottish
independence edward's resentful wife ran
into the arms of her lover roger
mortimer whose forces invaded england
and toppled the king edward was
imprisoned and it's rumored tortured and
killed by having a red-hot poker
inserted into his
his son edward iii ruled next for an
incredible 50 years from 1327 to 1377
though the black death devastated
england killing up to 40 percent of the
population his reign is considered a
success edward iii restored royal
authority and led england into the
hundred years war with france winning
important victories at cressie and
poitier edward iii son died too soon to
be king so instead the crown pastor
edward iii's grandson richard ii who
ruled from 1377 to 1399. richard ii was
only 10 when he became king so edward
iii's other son john of gaunt took the
reins initially helping the young king
through major challenges such as the
continuation of the hundred years war
and the peasants revolt of 1381 richard
later fell out with an exiled john of
gaunt's son his cousin henry
bollingbrook seeking revenge henry
invaded england deposed richard and had
himself crowned king henry iv henry iv
who ruled from 1399 to 1413 might have
stabilized the monarchy but overthrowing
king richard ii would later lead to the
war of the roses henry's son ruled next
as henry v from 1413 to 1422. henry v is
known for his prowess on the battlefield
leading his english army in a stunning
victory over the french at the battle of
agincourt in 1415 and coming very close
to conquering the whole of france henry
v was succeeded by his nine-month-old
son who was crowned henry vi and who
ruled from 1422 to 1471. thanks to his
father's successors he was also crowned
king of france though he was eventually
dethroned there and the war with friends
started again domestic troubles led to
poor henry vi having a series of mental
breakdowns culminating in the war of the
roses which resulted in him being
deposed by the son of his cousin richard
the duke of york who had himself crowned
edward iv though henry vi was eventually
restored to the throne edward iv killed
his son and heir and placed the ailing
king in the tower of london where he's
thought to have been murdered all this
means that our next king edward iv had
two reigns from 1461 to 1470 and then
again after henry vi was reinstated and
then died from 1471 to 1483. his 12 year
old son would subsequently reign as
edward v for just 11 weeks in 1483
before being disappeared by his uncle
and protector the dastardly richard iii
who would himself rule from 1483 until
1485. richard iii's reign culminated
with the invasion of england by a
distant claimant to the english throne
from the lancastrian branch of the
plantagenet family henry who had himself
crowned after richard iii was slain at
the battle of bosworth crowned henry vii
he ruled england from 1485 to 1509 and
established one of england's most famous
ruling dynasties the tudors having
stabilized the kingdom henry vii passed
the crown to his son henry viii who
during his 38-year reign from 1509 to
1547 famously married six wives
executing two of them in a bid to
produce a male heir he also initiated
the english reformation and separated
the church of england from the catholic
church in the process he was succeeded
by his nine-year-old son edward vi who
ruled from 1547 until his untimely death
in 1553 aged just 15. in that short time
the young king made his mark by
reinforcing the independence of the
church of england these efforts were
undermined by his older half-sister who
reigned next from 1553 to 1558 as mary
the first mary the first became known as
bloody mary for attempting to return
england to the catholic fold and for
sending dissenters to be burned to the
stake she was succeeded by her
half-sister the virgin queen the mighty
elizabeth the first who reigned from
1558 to 1603. elizabeth reversed mary's
attempts to re-establish catholicism in
england during her reign so famous it
was named the elizabethan age the
spanish armada was defeated the english
force is inspired by a stirring speech
she delivered on the eve of battle and
english literature and poetry flourished
especially under the penmanship of one
william shakespeare elizabeth produced
no children so she was succeeded by
james the first the great-great-grandson
of a previous king of england henry vii
james the first the first of the
stewards was already king of scotland
when he came to the english throne in
1603 and so he ruled both kingdoms until
1625 during james's reign the gunpowder
plot of 1605 a plan by english catholics
led by guy fawkes to blow up the house
of lords during the state opening of
parliament was thwarted james was
succeeded by his son who reigned as
charles the first from 1625 until his
execution in london in 1649. charles was
an unpopular king who tried to rule
without parliamentary oversight on top
of that he had a catholic wife and his
failure to provide aid to protestant
forces during the 30 years war in europe
fostered suspicions about where his
loyalties lay in 1642 the english civil
war broke out pitting round-head
parliamentarians led by oliver cromwell
against royalist cavaliers charles was
defeated in 1645 and executed four years
later for the first time england didn't
have a king a commonwealth of england
was established before the roundhead
general oliver cromwell ruled as lord
protector from 1653 until 1658 as well
as being a very capable military leader
cromwell is also known for his
intolerance of catholics and for the
atrocities he carried out in ireland he
was succeeded as lord protector by his
son richard cromwell who was weak and
ineffectual and spent just eight months
in office until 1659 when a council of
state was established to oversee the
running of england until charles the
first son could be brought back in crown
king he was and england became a
monarchy-led country again charles ii
reigned from 1660 until 1685. this
period of history is known as the
restoration and is characterized by a
sense of relief that england was back on
a steady course after the civil war and
by the music art and literature which
flourished at the time though he was a
bad administrator he was known as the
merry monarch and even became a people's
hero for his personal involvement in
trying to save london from the great
fire of 1666. despite having 13 children
non well legitimate so he was succeeded
to the throne by his younger brother
james who ruled from 1685 to 1688 a
catholic james ii was unpopular and was
deposed in the glorious revolution of
1688 when leading members of the english
political class invited the dutch
protestant william of orange a grandson
of charles the first to invade england
and take the crown william iii as he
became known ruled from 1688 to 1702
alongside his wife mary ii who ruled as
queen until her death in 1694. william
and mary helped to secure england's
status as a protestant parliamentary
democracy the couple didn't produce any
children so they were succeeded by the
daughter of james ii who ruled as queen
anne from 1702 to 1714. during her reign
the acts of union was signed merging
england and scotland into a single
sovereign state great britain
anne was the last monarch from the house
of stuart and died childless she was
succeeded by her second cousin her
closest living protestant relative from
the house of hanover george the first
who ruled from 1714 to 1727. under
george the first britain began the
steady transition from a country led by
a king to one led by members of
parliament notably robert walpole
recognized as great britain's first
prime minister george's son george ii
reigned next bonnie prince charlie the
stuart pretender to the throne attempted
to overthrow george ii in the last
jacobite uprising of 1745 the rebellion
failed george ii son frederick was due
to inherit the crown but died in 1751 so
instead frederick's son was crowned next
and styled george iii he ruled for an
incredible 60 years from 1760 right the
way through to 1820. george iii is
perhaps best remembered as the king who
lost britain's american colonies in the
american war of independence also during
his reign napoleon was defeated and the
transatlantic slave trade was abolished
in 1807. george iii is also thought to
have suffered from a severe mental
illness allowing his son to step in his
prince region george iv eventually
graduated from prince region to king he
built buckingham palace and presided
over the emergence of the british empire
as a dominant world force george's only
legitimate child charlotte died before
him in 1817 so when he himself died he
was succeeded by his younger brother
william who reigned as william iv from
1830 to 1837. william iv inherited the
throne when he was 64 and had led a full
life before then he'd served in the
royal navy was known as the sailor king
and cohabited with an actress with whom
he'd had several children william was
succeeded by one of the most famous
monarchs in british history queen
victoria victoria reigned from 1837
right the way through to 1901 and
presided over a period of industrial
scientific and cultural change the likes
of which had never been seen before in
britain or the world victoria was
succeeded by her son edward vii who
reigned from 1901 to 1910. after edward
or bertie as he was nicknamed came
george v who sat on the throne from 1910
to 1936. during world war one the house
of saks coburg and gotha was deemed too
german sounding and so was changed to
the house of windsor george v was
succeeded by his eldest son edward viii
who sat on the throne for less than a
year when he stepped down he was
succeeded by his younger brother george
vi who reigned from 1936 until his death
in 1952. george vi is remembered for his
radio broadcasts which boosted morale
with the british public during world war
ii and that brings us to the current
queen george's eldest daughter elizabeth
ii who was crowned in 1953 and in 2015
became the longest-serving monarch in
history elizabeth ii has presided over
some huge changes in the 20th and 21st
centuries from the dissolution of the
british empire to the cold war we'll end
our video here but if you're interested
in learning more about each individual
monarch take a look at our other videos
which english monarch do you find most
fascinating let us know in the comments
below
