hi friends thanks to the development of
technology today marble can be extracted
and processed without any difficulties
this stone is characterized by a wide
range of applications as a facing
material for different
surfaces therefore researchers are in
constant search of new deposits of
marble and work on improving the method
of its extraction and about all the
details of this case you'll learn from
our video so let's
go at this point each of these
Technologies is in the midst of intense
development to extract marble A
specialized machine must cut a whole
series of channels and slots in the Rock
which can reach 6.5 to 10 ft deep and 59
to 79 ft
long explosions must not be used as
doing so could shatter or crack the
marble and there's no way that this can
be allowed to happen it's only then that
large cranes are brought to the site
which actually extract the marble
blocks
a large toothless Band Saw is used to
cut rough Stone and water and sand is
poured on it while it's working why this
is necessary so that the block is
quickly and relatively easily cut into
pieces of a certain size due to the
friction of the steel blade and Sand by
the way sometimes instead of a rigid
blade Specialists prefer the use of a
wire
saw then what happens the pieces of
marble are moved to a circular grinding
machine and the material itself is
securely strapped down sand and water
are blown directly on the rotating
surface of the machine to level the
surface of the extracted marble
material well and for additional
smoothness the process of grinding is
performed as for the finishing polishing
it's performed with a prepared mixture
of tin oxide and oxalic acid which is
applied to the surface of the marble
with a polishing
wheel then the tra Transportation
process takes place I'd like to point
out that this is a significant stage as
a rule such material is transported by
Rail and containers but there are
exceptions air water and Road are also
welcome but they're much more expensive
in terms of
finances to safely transport the
material from place to place fragile
stone is packed in special crates or a
pyramid two stapled metal posts in
either case the the structure is tightly
secured with straps to prevent the
marble from spoiling from friction with
the belt additional packing material is
laid between them another important
condition is that the transportation of
marble slabs is carried out only in a
vertical
position after the multi-ton blocks of
marble are transported to the
manufacturing plant they're cut into
slabs using digital Milling
machines the marble slabs are then
polished for the first time then with
the help of silica sand pmus Hammers and
chisels the material is
embossed Marble's natural Elegance color
variety and excellent technological
properties make it the ideal material
for creating an exclusive interior today
marble is used in various combinations
for fireplaces bathroom interiors and
flooring I'm not even talking about the
finishing of buildings columns arches
staircases and other architecture
natural
elements but you know even though
Science and Technology do not stand
still the extraction of marble even
today remains a very labor intensive and
costly
work and this is one of the factors that
explain the rather High Cost of the
stone now you can turn your back ho
loader into a giant chainsaw and without
much effort you can do this with a very
unusual attachment from the the Italian
company
danini there may not be many possible
applications for this giant chainsaw in
construction but it looks great this
model is designed to be mounted on a cat
432d backhole loader and is specifically
designed to take full advantage of the
Hydraulics of this particular machine
the saw can be operated right from the
cab and you can control the height and
angle of the saw powerful stuff I must
admit
the kumatu wa800 is a large wheel loader
designed for use in heavyduty mining and
construction applications manufactured
by kumatu a leading producer of heavy
equipment the wa800 is known for its
impressive size and hauling capacity as
well as its Advanced features and
cuttingedge Technology its combination
of size power advanced technology and
operator friendly design make it a
popular choice for Mining and
construction firms around the
world
here we
go the new minia Max saw is a Cutting
Edge and compact power tool that offers
exceptional cutting performance in a
small and portable package this
Innovative saw is designed to meet the
needs of both professional Woodworkers
and DIY enthusiasts who require a
versatile and efficient cutting tool
despite its compact size the minax saw
packs a punch with its powerful motor
and sharp cutting blade it's capable of
making precise and clean cuts through a
variety of materials including wood
plastic and even certain
[Music]
Metals btech M10 and E10 are fully
mechanized drilling rigs for anchor bolt
installation known for their highquality
anchoring and productivity in mining
operations all of this became possible
thanks to the implementation of
intelligent options in the machines
by the way both models are equipped with
an optional electric transmission with a
zero emission battery which is also
crucial wouldn't you
[Music]
agree to meet the widest possible
technical challenges kemrock has
developed various cutting wheel options
with cutting depths up to 1,000 mm with
different cutting tool configurations
and widths up to 400 MM interestingly
the DMW series is also capable of
working underwater at depths of up to 30
m making this equipment ideal for
trenching and underwater
work meet the walking excavator from
seiku you might be amazed by the size of
this machine but believe me there's
nothing particularly surprising here
thanks to its compact Dimensions the the
excavator excels in its job on extreme
construction sides so this excavator is
truly the best choice for Earthworks on
steep slopes in mountains and on
impassible
surfaces the tesm M5 mechanical trencher
is a powerful and versatile machine
designed for digging trenches in a
variety of soil types and ground
conditions the m 5 is a reliable and
efficient solution for a range of
digging
applications the verir t655 is a
powerful and versatile trencher that is
designed for heavy duty trenching
operations it is equipped with a range
of advanced features that allow it to
cut through even the toughest soils with
ease making it an essential tool for a
variety of construction and agricultural
applications the trener is equipped with
a range of advanced features such as
electronic grade control and a digital
display that's all friends today you've
learned about all the processes of
mining this beautiful material I hope
the information you got was useful to
you we'll be grateful for the like and
subscription to our Channel bye for now
