Spurgeon root has a mission the pastor
and outreach worker has devoted his life
to helping street gang members get out
drug dealers violent offenders if they
really want to change their lives
Spurgeon root is there to help the city
of Regina and the Canadian province of
Saskatchewan is infamous for its
Aboriginal based gangs for Spurgeon root
this is the heritage of his country's
colonial past
[Music]
northcentral Regina's most crime-ridden
neighborhood and Spurgeon roots home for
the last 20 years he knows most of the
gangs by name the native syndicate
Westside soldiers Indian mafia Crips but
the culture around gangs keeps changing
he says neither syndicate tag does the
Saskatchewan Warriors tag and one that I
don't recognize the white one is a
native syndicate tag and then there's an
X through it which is you know like an
act of aggression or a screw you I don't
like you kind of a thing so this is part
of the challenge that we have right now
is that we've got these young younger
guys starting gangs and you don't
necessarily know who it is or you see a
tag and you recognize that it's a gang
tag because it's got numbers and it's
got all the you know looks like a gang
tag but you're not necessarily sure who
it is or what they're doing or who
they're aligned with spurgeon root says
he was on the ground when it all started
working with Aboriginal youth in North
Central I knew a bunch of the guys that
were getting involved and some of them
had known for a long time and I
considered them more like friends in a
lot of ways when your friends are
getting involved in things that are
really unhealthy and that are hurting
them and are killing people you kind of
want to help I guess one of the gang
members Spurgeon root helped was Lester
they meet in a wood shop the pastor
started 10 years ago to provide
marginalized youth with an opportunity
to develop new skills Lester just got
out of jail
Lester's father was murdered when he was
still little he says he spent his
childhood with his grandparents on one
of the reserves close to Aegina as a kid
Lester started to drink and to smoke
weed later using crystal meth in 2005 he
joins the Native syndicate one of the
most notorious gangs in Regina and most
of my time and there was just what I had
to do I was kind of an enforcer just
what I you start from a striker to a
soldier to you know make it you you work
your way up there and from my experience
in there I had to knock around guys beat
him up short moments balls I had I had
it right away and what I didn't like
though like I've seen a lot of beatings
I seen seen people get killed and stuff
and I didn't like what is going on is
that's the reason why I got out of the
game most of those here share a similar
story a dream of having a family and
being accepted which turned into a
nightmare of crime violence and drug
addiction most of the gang members of
Regina which is like Ron are First
Nations they say they were living a
transgenerational trauma
in the foster system mom a little bit of
foster sister but I I grew up in a young
age or my mother didn't care about me
and her husband didn't care about me and
my real dad was too messed up and biker
stuff himself right he died when I was
like eleven years old
right so I I got spoiled city streets
right it's all I knew like some of my
family was drug addicts and stuff
unfortunately I've seen the money so I
became addicted to money right time I
was 17 years old I was making like
$5,000 a days on drugs the gang tattoo
still remind them of what they have done
and what they have been through Kody
another former gangster that Spurgeon
root helped says he joins the Native
syndicate when he was 13 money money
friends acceptance I was given all that
up and Aikido starting fresh because I
wonder when I did give it up I went to a
really bad week our identity crisis I
didn't know what it was
the big bad gangster no more if I was
she to go do this and it took me a while
mess me up my name is like yeah it was
because of their children that Cody and
Ron decided to leave the gang lifestyle
they say to be better dads than the one
staying here Regina has the seventh
highest population of Aboriginal people
in Canada and like many parts of the
country Spurgeon root says it has its
own story of discrimination and racism
against First Nations he takes us to a
cemetery not far away from a former
residential school in Regina such
schools were established to remove
indigenous children from the influence
of their own families and to assimilate
them into euro Canadian culture
part of where it started there's a hole
and the impact of colonialism and the
decision to try and wipe out an entire
cultural people group and there's spots
like this all over Saskatchewan right
like this is not an unusual spot sadly
so when you've got people that are
disposable for generations it's not
surprising that they you know need to
resort to other ways of living a late
visit to Lester who seems to be going
through a crisis my dad died and he was
20 he never went to residential but my
mom did and she heard for a lot of years
from [ __ ] that happened and I had to see
my mom you know I had to see my mom I
grew up around [ __ ] house parties and
[ __ ] when I was living with her and
well I'm a smart guy and stuff so I
learned to shake it off and I have two
sons now my own and I don't want to see
my kids go through what you know
fighting oh he's I still love it but I
don't do it I love it when I win you
know just get that rush and I don't like
to hurt people anymore I don't want to
go back to my old life of using drugs
and drinking drinking drinking drinking
drinking for days and days and days
Virgen root is there for him
listening encouraging buying if
necessary grocery vouchers for Lester's
kids
getting out is it's not easy but I mean
to an extent you can be out and then
you're out and if you don't go back and
you don't mess with the same people and
you're not involved in any of that then
you can be out but the challenge is that
people still have all the same
addictions they've got all the trauma
still back there as a former
high-ranking gang member
Ron is still facing consequences from
his past after his release from prison
he lives in a halfway house and he is
determined to help young people avoid
his fate
Kosmic sure you only cost me the I had a
cost my wife not now I'm I'm the First
Nations man that helps this community
not poison it by the sale of narcotics
ray I help I help the kids in that
community instead of you know selling
drugs to everybody right so it's way
better
that's all we're supposed to do in life
they're not supposed to do we're not
supposed to be gang members I'm not
supposed to shoot people these bad
people in celle drugs are supposed to
help your community right
community work on Saturday morning
friends and members of Spurgeon roots
congregation come together to clean up
for winter
[Music]
ginamarie is also here for John and she
are viable college sweethearts married
for 20 years together they decided to
raise three daughters in north-central
I'll never forget my daughter coming
home and grade two and asking me mum
what's abuse and having to explain that
and she's just but why would I why would
a grown up ever hurt a kid and and she
just that was so out of her
understanding and and and she was crying
over it because she knew that that was
some of her friends from school we're
dealing with that and that was hard it
sort of felt like I was stripping her
innocence away a little bit and so
sometimes after something like that whoa
is this really where we want to raise
our kids
but they stuck with their decision
believing that they are involved in
something that's beyond here and now and
that's it's up to everyone to choose
what to focus on it helps to keep in
mind that you know people are changing
good things are happening it's not all
bad by any stretch
[Music]
Lester Ron Cody and many others they are
the reason for Spurgeon root to keep
hope
[Music]
