[Music]
the Daran Gap 100 km of rainforest
separating Panama and Colombia it's one
of the key migration routes in the world
today people in my country are starving
many are dying it's been a dictatorship
for 60 years that's why I sold my house
and
left more than half a million people
made the journey in 2023 alone it may be
a tiny step towards the us but it's by
far the
hardest I want a better life for my
children and my parents they're all I
[Music]
[Music]
have the route begins in Northern
Colombia nikle was known as a vacation
resort today migrants wait here before
entering the
rainforest travel to Panama is sold for
$2 to
$400 for some it's much more than they
have those who can afford it border a
boat that will carry them across the
Gulf of
[Music]
uraba
after the crossing several routes lead
into the Darion but the cheapest and
most arduous is via
kugan for those who paid a package price
to Panama back in nikog Le it's usually
at this point where they discover
they've been swindled the migrants have
to pay
again talk with the guys and
[Applause]
negotiate I've been here for 4 days
we're negotiating every day there were
14 of us and now there's only four of us
we'll do our best but we need your
support
too Darwin Alias maradon is The
Smuggler's boss he calls them guides
they'll take people to the Panama border
for around
$150 bringing migrants to Panama counts
as smuggling in Colombia and is
illegal do you want these guys to die on
the Darian route like they used to or
would you rather we make them pay for a
safe route that's not taking advantage
they have to cross we provide the
service it's an Open Secret that it's
Colombia's most powerful crime syndicate
the clan Del go for calling the shots
here there's evidence that Smugglers are
forced to make payments to the clan
despite proclamations from the
governments of Colombia the US and
Panama military presence here is minimal
back in April it was said they would
halt migration within 2
months this is where the route through
the jungle Begins the first first group
of the day sets off around midday
Joseline baros a single mother from
Venezuela is traveling with her three
children in Colombia I wound up earning
too little
money what did you work
as in customer service in a cafe as a
street vendor anything I could find as
long as it was a decent
job
why couldn't you just take a flight to
Panama it's too expensive passports
especially cost a lot of money for
Venezuelans earning that much on your
own it can't be
done Juan Bautista comes from Cuba he is
traveling alone the hopes of his family
are riding on him if I make it I'll send
money to my family that's my goal that
gives me strength my family doesn't
really want me to take the risk but I
have
to
the majority of migrants currently
taking this route are Venezuelans
they're joined by ecuadorians Cubans
even Afghans Chinese and somalis none of
them see an alternative to the Daran
route but many underestimate the
danger it's not just only the presence
of armed groups that can be perilous for
the migrants nature itself can pose a
threat Joselina is having difficulty
keeping up her fellow Travelers help her
with the
children the woman's
tired the hike today lasts around 8
hours in the evening around halfast 7
the group arrives at Camp here they're
only 20 minutes away from
Panama joselene and and her children
have made it so
far we lost all the supplies everything
all the food I got upset of course I
started crying because I don't know what
to do now with no money and no food for
the
children I can go on with only water but
it's about the
children children and my parents are all
I
have I have no one
else when I'm over there when with God's
help I'm doing well I'll bring my
parents
too but I couldn't leave the little ones
with my
parents they'd be too much of a burden
you
know at the camp there's food and
electricity from the generator but
everything costs even the next section
of the journey the migrants now must pay
$60 to get to Panama the group has to
hold out at least three more days in
Darion three three days of uncertainty
many are unable to pay the Smugglers not
even Juan from
Cuba others who have been through here
have told me it's dangerous that are
paramilitary units that are drug dealers
anything can happen in the jungle and
they offer no security I'd like to have
the money to pay because it's only fair
security is worth a lot I don't want to
die here I want to make the dream come
true for my
family
on the other side of the Darion lies
Panama here some 50 km north of the
Colombian border is the base for
Panama's Border
[Music]
Police Jerry Rodriguez is an officer
with a Border Police Special Operation
St Brigade he's experienced frequent
clashes with armed groups and has also
encountered the guides but they fled
every
time for us these guides are coyotes
just traffickers if someone runs it's
because they're not obeying the law I
think the migrant issue is mainly about
money Jerry and his colleagues have
often recovered bodies from the forest
but so far they haven't received any
additional help though migration through
Darion was meant to have been stopped
months
ago we've been told we'll see
improvements soon but we're still
waiting Jerry is later called to another
body recovery operation in the Darion at
least
258 people have lost their lives here
since
2018 here in Panama Border Police do not
stop the migrants but help them get
safely to the Border with Costa
Rica the journey up River to K gas takes
roughly 6 and 1 half hours this is where
most of the migrants currently emerge
from the Darion the worst section of the
route is now behind
them osbel Anna hose and their three
children have just
arrived fallen down often but we have to
keep
going for a good future for my children
for them to be well for them to not want
for anything for them to
study we have to pray to God keep on
with God's
help from here the route continues by
boat and the last of the day are just
leaving these migrants have surv
survived the Daran Gap but many who
cannot afford the boat ride will have to
wait here in improvised camps until one
of the drivers takes pity on them and
offers a free
ride bahoi Kito is 45 minutes down river
the indigenous Village is the first
populated area that the migrants see
again only a few hundred people live
here but over a thousand migrants
currently arrive each day
Ana and osel got lucky and were able to
travel in one of the boats for free
their money ran out long
ago we're feeling better now because we
have arrived in a safer camp at least we
got out of the Jungle thank
[Music]
God Anna you take the kid I'll get the
tent there's a first aid post here and a
kind of State
registration take your child with
you the woman can do the
registration later that afternoon
joselene suddenly appears in the village
with her children they're wearing shirts
and pants that fellow Travelers have
given them for the first time in days
the children are given something to
eat see
I need something to
drink Joseline tells us about how her
group was
attacked our guide suddenly came to us
with several masked people they had guns
they told us to stop because if we
didn't they'd send us all
back thank God they let me
through I was alone with the children
one of the men with the guns told me to
just keep
walking I escaped with a scare but there
were people they took money
from the last stop in Panama for the
migrants is a reception Camp further
Downstream here Border Police put them
on buses that take them to the Costa
Rican border the trip costs $40 per
person no we don't know anything let's
see what they tell us up there but we're
getting closer and closer now
Six National borders still lie between
anah hose and osel and the United States
as a deserting soldier from Venezuela
osbel may have a good chance of being
granted Asylum but nothing is certain
things it's the most powerful country
the country that is most likely to help
migrants today it's our only option if
an opportunity arises in another country
if someone grants us a residency permit
then we'll go
there this part of the migration to the
us alone cost some
$500 a flight from Colombia to Mexico is
just half of that within a few months
osbel anahi and joselene have all
arrived in the US whether they'll be
allowed to stay is uncertain but at
least they have survived the treacherous
Journey Through the Daran
Gap
