monkey dust is a man-made synthetic drug
that causes extreme paranoia and
hallucinations a hit costs as little as
two pounds and its effects can be filed
after ingesting amounts as small as
three milligrams
Jeannette Jackson has personally seen
the debilitating effects of monkey dust
both lost for sure it's vile because it
just eats them away
you know me they're that hookah tonic
they can't stop using these but you can
see the faces are like getting withdrawn
and you know they're to go and it's by
but for it because it's it's man-made
rock so the comment even gave him
anything to get them off easily
buz Bailey became passionate about
trying to eradicate monkey dust after
discovering that his son Bria had began
to take it Rio was once a top-level
triple and long jumper fleas
he experimented with drugs during his
time at University and was introduced to
monkey dust a year ago now buzz is
prepared to do everything he can to get
rid of dust on the streets of Stoke he
spends his spare time gathering
information educating others and helping
users in the hope that he can save his
son and prevent further addiction
because community group time for action
meet every few weeks to discuss the ways
that they can tackle the epidemic
just your personal appendage you think I
agree do you think we're getting better
it's getting with tip is about body
might agree for opportunity to account
but suggested that we went out and met
some known users to find out more about
dust
nice cup - looking back you get these
cubbies Flambeau I'm in a pipe would you
like me to do one front of you yeah go
for it
ooh don't just see me now so let's go
now sauce over you he money but
you get up for you want man Cheers you
need a DUI Thank You Dustin yeah monkey
does great
no sir what are you doing making a
documentary about monkey-do takers what
do you think of it an element into this
for to you do you know no it's the
roasting going yeah I'm glad you said
that because I think that physical side
effects of dementia psychological
because I mean we can substitute you but
just as addicted to heroin itself and
what would this itself does Saligram are
down the river for a part it's
government
it's my major into the system to divide
us all yeah yeah I stole a good [ __ ]
job and now it's an epidemic
I don't care about talking to them about
you because it'd be another day I'd
rather put my opinion in crisis and as a
user myself lose it at least his
knowledge that's real and right
out sent me please basically since L
first started the monkey dust it's when
these kicked me out to the Salvation
Army yeah yeah and since then before
then I was a clean from 2009 to 2015
from being a prolific house burglar
since these kicked me out and put me
back on the streets back in like manner
dust yeah and now I'm kicking up doors
left right and center yes but what make
shoes up to Dave Jones yeah users tend
to be out at night and sleep in the day
due to the abuse they receive as the
drug is made of readily available and
interchangeable ingredients dealers can
make it in their own homes before
distributing it to users this means that
it's much harder to be detected by
authorities
[ __ ] yeah oh [ __ ] I should get another
big part cake mix they do those things
when they're going about to go crazy
[ __ ] ghosts I'll fill you that bag
fold up tasty I don't see the lines
tired and yours is fluff no one's got
their fourth well so it's stuff a lot no
full fish the main ingredients in full
you made it Gideon's in the floor for
the doctor for firearms powder yeah what
do you mean is I his fire agents no no
you know different Chinese been buns
yeah it's not like marzipan nurse
he wasn't dosed [ __ ] love me sealants
yeah you get dis what smells like gonna
go to pub and you piss on it your idol
you smell lemon you get dust what smells
like that's cool I'll call it bug wash
just kind of stop
[Music]
during a Dustin Joost rage 35 year old
cabin Eagles climbed onto the roof of
his flat where he tad off roof tiles and
launched them on Lucas on the police who
engaged in a six hour long standoff with
him Kevin's family described the ordeal
as a final cry for help after he was
unable to receive any treatment for his
mental health issues due to the lack of
services in the area and an
overstretched NH house our hearts were a
mouse thinking he's gonna fall off the
roof and then it was people saying I
hope he falls off
that's his mom there his brother you
know I mean yeah what about that when I
first saw his flat it was just
devastation cause he lives like I cause
you know his own as a car oh he's
absolutely spotless
so for go and see that you just think
God you know what's happened it's just
that drug must turn him into some demon
proper shows the facts of what the drug
does Donnie
he's just my souls through the roof
smashed all these windows you've sprayed
the window so no one could see in and
realized he can't see out so he
scratched a bit off so he can see out we
fix him once and I don't think you can
fix somebody twice he came a few weeks
before and I said I was getting sexually
and he said you know I wouldn't section
him he'd go on his roof first when he
was ready he knew he needed up and in
his mind he's gone you know what the
only place I'll get off this is by going
prison he realized he was that serious
yeah drew me yeah you know and I think
he's just made that decision ago right
this is what I mean - yeah it doors
massively yeah massively cuz obviously
people watching this won't actually know
what
you going through what it's like to
their first service I don't get
emotional I don't
but I just think if we didn't have him
we'd have no watch that's from the
bottom and the RT says because he's been
that contacted and we don't have no one
to speak to he's been our strength he's
been our rocks
but it's not just users and their
families who have been affected Sara
explains how the rise in dust users is
affecting those being raised in Stoke
today and how her home of thirty-eight
years has been taken over by the drug
her photographic record shows all too
clearly the daily problems they face
I sent the photographs off to four and
peas and counselors that was when the
response started because they were
already fired at what they were seeing
and at that point we were just accepting
it van it was it was quite normal we'd
got hardened to our awful it really was
I didn't want my children growing off
pennies um and I thought you know every
child deserves a chance you know and
they shouldn't have to see these things
that it shouldn't be classed as normal
they shouldn't come out to play football
and kick a couple of unconscious drug
users out of the way cause they're
asleep in gull walls the more they're
perceiving least as normal the moral out
with the are to think well that's what
everybody adores I don't want it for my
children but I also don't want it for
Annie you know as a parent to see your
child go into that lifestyle it's got to
be one of the worst things possible
the community group part for the
homeless founded by Jeanette Jackson was
dedicated to helping rough sleepers and
addicts they provide food and services
like first aid for the homeless five
days a week we started this in 2015 it
was October so the weather just started
going really really cold so we decided
that something else needed to be done
for the homeless
so we actually went on the streets for
twelve months we worked outside bunk
through its outside come to the bus
station and there really finally
security building inside so we've been
here now for about 18 months the council
don't support has one bit in fact
they're against us because of what we do
do we got accused two years ago of
actually encouraging all homeless people
from different parts of stoke-on-trent
call me to happen they just got too hot
me up we all just keep fighting we were
he's got to that point now drastic
actions needed you know if that drastic
action ends up with me going to prison
and so what you know if that's what I've
got do to help save lives in our city
then I'm prepared to do that I may not
be able save my son but if I can stop
somebody else's son daughter brother
sister you know parent even from taking
it then it's got to be a good thing I've
got to keep moving forward it needs to
be reclassified as a class a drug I like
it a separate classification for me for
all of the synthetic stuff for me should
be a double a class drug you know they
should carry any even stiffer sentence
at last questions are being asked to a
political level support charities have
told me they are supporting people who
have actually started using heroin so
that they would be eligible for the
rehab support they have been denied when
trying to get off monkey dust but when
will the government address the problems
of UK cities white Stoke awash with
drugs in the living hell that they
create for both the abusers and locals
like the stogies who want their City
back it's gotta be ho Huntley definitely
I mean
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
