if you thought Don't Hug Me I'm Scared
was the most disturbing stuff on YouTube
think again ain't that right Salad
Fingers
cubicle fancy seeing you here
hello Internet welcome to film Theory
giving myself nightmares just to explain
a decades-old web series and that's no
exaggeration I have been wrecked for a
week working on this thing but man what
a rewarding series it is to analyze so
as we prepare to hop right in let's
start with some context starting in 2004
and finally ending in 2013 with just 10
short episodes Salad Fingers was
successfully able to terrify a
generation making it one of the founding
fathers of online video Terror I kid you
not I remember being in high school and
everyone daring each other to watch the
first episode of this the next day kids
would come back racked I'll admit it the
build up for how scary this thing was
was so strong that I actually didn't
watch it only just picking it up this
year to finally satisfy my curiosity
thinking hey I've grown up a bit this
shouldn't be nearly as scary as it was
when we were back in high school but I
was definitely wrong freakish imagery
gut-wrenching sound design in an
unsettling story all packaged and stiff
inhuman animations in the way only early
Flash videos can animate it was and
still is the stuff of nightmares yet
despite its obvious scare Factor what's
less obvious is the series plot with so
much of the story being told in
fractured Pieces by unreliable
characters using abstract symbols what's
actually going on here is a bit of a
question the visuals and sound may be
the stuff of nightmares but the story
here is the stuff of theories which
means after all of these years of
avoiding watching it myself it's now my
turn to dare you to watch The Salad
Finger series if you haven't yet and if
you think you can handle it by clicking
right here it's a little under an hour
and it's well worth it to not only
understand this Theory but witness some
of the most influential early flash
animations online plus with Halloween
around the corner it'll give you some
spooky fun alright write a toss some
salad let's go now when trying to
analyze something as abstract as Salad
Fingers we have to start with with the
most basic questions and work from there
so where is this story set well we see
Salad Fingers roaming a mostly Barren
Wasteland filled with strange mutants
and burned out houses leading many to
think that this is a post-apocalyptic
Universe however based on context clues
we can get a lot more specific when
discussing his earlier life Salad Finger
says I used to sing
it's all the functions
from croxleyheath to Cowden baith both
of which are real world locations in the
United Kingdom he mentions Croxley again
this time saying that he listened to it
on the radio in episode 8. if I'm an
early bird I listen to Croxley so we
know that he lives in the UK but we can
also identify the year in episode 6
present the titular present that he
receives is a toy horse that he refers
to as my very own Harris house color
note that he says my very own Horus
horse collar meaning that horse horse
collar is already something in existence
and indeed he is Horus horse collar was
the name of a cheerful know-it-all
cartoon character created by Walt Disney
back in 1929 as a partner to Mickey
Mouse in all of his adventures basically
he was like the earlier version of goofy
appearing in animations between 1929 and
1942 but we can narrow that range
further as we hear Salad Fingers sing
both the songs somewhere over the
rainbow and we'll meet again at various
points throughout the series two songs
both released in 1939 and 1939 is a
crucial year since it falls right
between World War One and the start of
World War II throughout salad fingers
are leafy green hero talks frequently
about the Great War from the Great Wall
to leave for the Great Wall without me
with various characters coming back from
the war including Kenneth his younger
brother who happens to be a corpse lying
in a ditch and Jeremy Fisher one of his
finger puppets more on both of them a
little bit later salad also laments that
Kenneth must return to the trenches the
major fighting style of the first world
war it's also worth remembering that in
between the two Wars no one called it
World War one since no one knew a second
one was coming just a few decades later
as such while the U.S referred to it as
the European War during those years
britons preferred calling it The Great
War at least they did up until the 1940s
based on all of this evidence we know
that salad fingers is set in a version
of the UK in 1939. one still grappling
with the very real effects of the first
world war but right before the outbreak
of the second one who said a weird web
series about rubbing rust-covered
objects with your grotesque Leaf fingers
wouldn't be educational and here's where
it's interesting because remember based
on Horace horse collar and the two songs
he sings the time we spend with Salad
Fingers is at least 1939 which is 20
years after the end of the Great War and
yet he talks about it like it's still
going on he's delusional mentally stuck
in the past it's also important to note
that we see background paintings of
normal people and places like the one in
episode 1 as well as this one of a
church in episode 5 from flashbacks we
can see that salad fingers has
experienced things like hair salons so
there is a real world here a real world
filled with actual normal looking people
like the kid in episode 2 and his picnic
partner in episode 5. in short the
post-apocalyptic Wasteland filled with
irradiated mutants that salad fingers
wanders through is not reality as many
other theories believe it's how he sees
the world very clearly there is a moment
in his life during the Great War that
caused him to have a break from the
existing reality and he's entered a
state of Arrested Development ever since
which means that things start to get
complicated in a a hurry because not
only is he lost in time but his
personality is also jumbled while it
would be easy to lump all of salad
finger's actions onto one person he
actually shows himself to hop between
various characters and backstories
without realizing it for instance when
speaking with Kenneth he laments being
left behind as the rest of the boys went
out to the Great War it was fried
favorite a few blacks
to leave the Great Wall without me but
then two episodes later we see him
writing the equivalent of a teacher's
note explaining why he can't come to the
front today implying that he's already
been there
I sharped be able to attend the war
today not to mention him speaking fluent
French nebula
in understanding Morse code both skills
a soldier would likely have from his
time during the war but made especially
stranger since he shows that he can
neither read nor write as evidenced by
his failed letter writing in episode 9
his made-up letter reading earlier in
that same episode and his willful
disregard for Harry the barbecue man's
name tag in episode 2 instead choosing
to name him Milford cubicle and then
joyfully play the flute for him like I
said this series is so weird we also
clearly see him giving voice to his own
baby ah that's a shame you were doing a
first-rate job and repeatedly slipping
into the Persona of a flirtatious girl
hitting on Sailors back for Shore leave
they'll be troubled in the Peyton's
quarters maybe he can come and tuck me
in tonight's silence stop that talking
about washing his petticoats probably
enough water in here to wash my
petticoats which is a girl's underskirt
just so you know not many of the beauty
gurus talking about their petticoats
these days and also repeatedly hopping
into dresses whether to sing on stage or
get himself married then in the final
episode he enters the forest hoping to
find a doctor to look at Milford cubicle
who yes gesso happens to wind up as a
corpse hanging from the wall leave a
duty to fetch the doctor since our
wandering guest has fallen ill and once
the doctor is found claims the
Examination for himself I suppose you'll
be checking me we also see moments where
Salad Fingers clearly switches from one
Persona to the next for getting the name
of one of his favorite puppets Hubert
cumberdale and having to make up a new
one why if it isn't
um
Logan price forgetting that he intended
to give his baby away to Auntie
Bainbridge and deciding to clean the
windows instead good old Auntie
Bainbridge has agreed to take care of
you I'm just here
to
clean your windows and with a clear
change in Attitude indicated by his
facial shift as the doctor brutalizes
the horse during the final scenes of
episode 10.
I know it hurts in short solving the
story of Salad Fingers isn't just
figuring out what's going on for one
character it's figuring out the numerous
people's fingers gives voice to decoding
what they're saying and then deciding
how those actions all fit into one
overall narrative and that's quite a
Monumental task so let's actually start
with one of the easiest of those
characters which is his younger brother
Kenneth in episode 7 labeled Shore leave
the puppet Hubert cumberdale digs up a
dead body whose Salad Fingers identifies
as his brother back on leave from the
Great War already you can see how salad
here is a little bit of a tossed salad
as he attributes the digging of the hole
to Hubert a finger puppet rather than
himself giving us further evidence that
he switches between personalities
blacking out what happens in those
moments from his own memories now during
his brother's visit salad Marvels at the
women his brother must have chaste
recounts details of his own personal
singing career and then ends the visit
by kicking Kenneth back into the hole so
he can return to the trenches and resume
his Call of Duty it's about as pleasant
of a visit as you can expect from a
half-desicated corpse except there's one
flashback in the middle of that visit
that's awfully suspicious Salad Fingers
leads into the Flashback by telling a
story of how he and his brother used to
fight the Riverside we then hear a
typical flashback transition and what we
see instead is our green friend rolling
out a measuring wheel and talking to a
tree
[Music]
today not quite frolicking by the river
with his brother right well maybe it is
what if his brother is the tree or more
accurately what if his brother is buried
under the tree I propose to you that the
younger brother Kenneth never fought in
the War at all and instead died young
perhaps even in childbirth only to be
buried under this tree 21 yards away
from Salad Fingers front door and Beyond
just the obvious is Flashback there are
smaller Clues to this being the true
story first notice that the episode is
labeled Shore leave and yet Salad
Fingers says Kenneth is headed back to
the trenches as a member of the U.S
Royal Navy Kenneth shouldn't be dealing
with trenches as his battles would be
mostly fought at Sea so either it's a
factual error here or a fabricated
memory by Salad Fingers dreaming up his
dead younger brother as some sort of war
hero getting all the ladies but that's
not all let's look at the tree itself
you see this wouldn't be the only time
that we see this tree associated with
babies during a dream sequence at the
top of episode nine Salad Fingers has a
conversation with that same tree which
now Sprouts a face and complains about
wanting to come inside to escape the
cold the difference though is that this
time the tree calls him daddy
and when Salad Fingers refuses to help
Mr branches saying that the baby needs
to grow out of its branches to come
inside it wraps itself around its
stomach ending the dream and leading to
a scene where fingers actually gives
birth in fact when you look across all
10 of Salad Fingers episodes baby
imagery is everywhere from Salad Fingers
finding a baby carriage for his Nettles
and starting to lactate in episode 3 to
him being attacked by the baby tree and
literally giving birth in episode 9 but
probably the clearest place that we see
it is in episode 4 cage where Salad
Fingers is literally followed around by
an embryo and that's no exaggeration
just look at this thing the large folded
over forehead the veins visible Under
the Skin it looks exactly like a baby in
the womb it even makes baby noises
throughout the episode
but the giveaway here is in the eyes
Salad Fingers may be abstract in its art
style but it's not sloppy with its
imagery be careful attention to the eyes
of the characters who appear throughout
the series The Living characters like
salad fingers anti-bainbridge varsity
jacket kit and Milford cubicle prior to
his death all have normal looking eyes
the puppets all have button-like eyes
and this guy is the only one to have
misshapen black dots just like the eyes
of a developing embryo I mean just
compare the two look at an embryo look
at this character they are one and the
same but what does it all mean well in
cage we see salad clearly disturbed by
this thing following him around he
starts the episode eager to find France
because as he says I've always wanted to
get over there but once he realizes he's
being chased by the embryo he
immediately puts off his goal for
another day returning home to hide and
it's not like this thing is menacing
quite the contrary he's actually
incredibly friendly with hearts
appearing around it when it speaks to
Salad Fingers and proposing to him with
a ring sure it also lures him out of the
house with a grubby tap leading him to a
bear trap and locking him into that
titular cage but hey it was for love I
swear I did It All for Love the episode
ends with salad disappearing flying away
on a tap once again wearing his Beret to
find France while the embryo sits there
and cries it's a bizarre sequence but
also one that seems pretty literal
between this and the tree it's the
second time that we see Salad Fingers
actively walking away from babies
looking for affection in fact the
presence of the baby prevents Salad
Fingers from pursuing his dream of
finding France and literally traps him
which shows how salad's psyche views
having kids it's a metaphor that
continues in episode 9 where having baby
Yvonne starts as a happy moment but then
quickly turns sour as the baby doesn't
listen to him and instead slowly starts
to kill him to the point that the
enfeebled salad fingers is stuck in a
wheelchair and decides to give her away
time and time again throughout this
series we see Salad Fingers turning away
from children running away from them
trapped by them and in some instances
outright killing them as is the case
with the boy that he accidentally locks
in the oven one of the few events in the
series that we can actually confirm is a
real occurrence since we see the letter
from his letterman jacket buried in a
pile of junk Midway through the final
episode but what does it all mean well
at this point we've covered about half
the episodes meaning that there's still
quite a bit to go and the hardest
questions are yet to come including the
identities of his mysterious finger
puppets and the super dark imagery of
the final ending so I know you're gonna
hate me for it but I have to call this
one a two-parter so first make sure that
you're notified for part two rub your
salad Mouse over this Rusty subscribe
button so that you don't miss the upload
just so you guys don't get all upset at
me in the comments again let me just
clarify that I separate things out into
two parters for a bunch of reasons
mostly so I don't have to rush through
all the information as you can see
there's a lot to talk about in Salad
Fingers and I don't want to skip things
or cut a bunch out just to fit it into
the typical 13 to 20 minute episode
length why not make it longer you ask
and that's a legitimate question but
there are a few reasons first it already
takes around 80 hours to edit these
videos together so longer videos are
just brutal for Thomas Edward Ronnie and
sedge that's actually why I work with so
many editors because the episodes think
so long to make we have to rotate
between everyone to make sure that the
episodes come out on a regular basis but
not only that I've seen the data on how
you guys watch these episodes once an
episode is over 17 minutes people tend
to cut out early so going far over 20
minutes is gonna mean that a lot of
people miss all the cool stuff that we
all worked really hard to show you guys
and lastly YouTube demands regular
videos and if you want to really grow
and stay relevant in today's YouTube you
really should be releasing stuff every
day now obviously we can't do that but
we do try our best to stay regular at
ethereal week that said if I take two
weeks off to work on one video YouTube
system will freak out and start
punishing the channel I hope that you
guys understand and I hope that you've
subscribed since I really want you to
see how this whole series wraps up this
thing is dark that's about it for this
week now if you'll excuse me I have to
go rub my finger on some Rusty Spoons it
feels so good on my salad fingers
