TK has been in prison for the last six
years out of a 55-year sentence given to
him by a jury prior to this he was on
house arrest for eight months when
suddenly he sent out a tweet stating he
had enough he and his best friend cut
off their ankle monitors and said they
were going on the run and if police
wanted them they were going to have to
come find them it would take U.S
Marshals a three-month Nationwide search
when they eventually apprehended him on
the other side of the country with TK
taunting them every step of the way
eventually on June 30th 2017 he was
captured but he had one more trick up
his sleeve to show the world just hours
after his arrest a music video to a song
titled the race was published on a
YouTube channel after social media got a
hold of it there was no going back
almost overnight TK would have a viral
hit on his hands people were now tuning
into this story of a 17 year old kid who
ran from the police made songs about it
and you couldn't even help but watch it
but nobody at the time knew the severity
of his crimes the blood of two innocent
people had been shed Timor McIntyre ever
so slightly rolled his head to the side
as the judge announced his 55-year
prison sentence for the murder of Ethan
Walker now at 22 years old he says he
never had the chance to be an adult one
of his co-defendants who was a white
female only got 10 years of probation
but TK was ultimately sentenced to 55
years in prison for just one of the
murders this led to him stating if he
was white he wouldn't have received such
a harsh punishment all he wants is a
second chance you got the world going
crazy right now
I heard something about it
[Music]
Tamar McIntyre was born June 16 2000 in
Long Beach California in deep Crips
territory both of his parents were gang
members and even though his dad was
always in and out of prison his mom was
still active with the baby insane cribs
while raising the two kids him and his
sister Kayla but things really took a
turn for the worse when his dad was
doing a seven year run in prison for a
deal gone bad in 2002 without a father
figure around it was hard for him to
find guidance eventually their mom was
unable to raise them and they soon found
themselves in the foster care system
bouncing around from different families
who ultimately didn't want them being in
foster care since we were like
really young like damn they're all our
life we never stay with our parents we
kind of stayed in different foster homes
bouncing around this was him and his
sister's childhood as they stayed in the
foster care system and they said they
never really experienced Christmas as a
kid
eventually his mom did escape the gang
life and she relocated the family about
four hours away to Las Vegas they ended
up only spending about a year there
until 2009 and that's because his dad
was released after serving his seven
years being forced to Texas was the last
thing they wanted but taymor was
enrolled in elementary school and then
eventually Middle School still he and
his sister felt trapped with their dad
who by now had started to abuse them
badly for the smallest things he didn't
want to think about it and he wanted to
be anywhere else but home so we stayed
at friends houses as much as he could
now the streets welcomed him and he
welcomed the streets
[Music]
in 2014 he was a freshman at Martin High
School but most of his time was spent
freestyling with his friends they called
themselves the Daytona boys they were
Rowdy and loud and would rap and smoke
weed whether they went to school that
day or ditched three people made up the
Daytona boys Eric Johnson or Santana
Sage Jalen Bell or pimps and Tamor who
now wrapped his tk-47 in addition they
had a manager named Ezra who was
important to the team and handled
everything behind the scenes to them
Daytona boys was a Brotherhood and the
group knew they had something special so
they figured why not start uploading on
Soundcloud but even with music in his
life he just couldn't stay out of
trouble this old tweet shows a letter of
him being expelled from high school
after he brought marijuana on grounds he
didn't want to go back to school and he
couldn't go back home so nothing really
mattered TK would often sleep over
Pimp's house at night and after being
kicked out of high school they only grew
closer he was on his own f 15 years old
now his full attention was on his music
and social media pushing the Daytona
boys as much as he could being seen in
interviews before anyone even knew who
they were
ready
and with their manager's help they were
even booking shows after their shows
would run into 2 A.M and in the night
they were in the streets doing what they
believed they had to do robbing stealing
and toting guns and anyone who got in
their way would learn with death
involved an exchange of words between
two car loans of people who just left a
party New Year's morning 2016.
on December 31st 2015 the Daytona boys
were at a New Year's show in Arlington
and finished around 2 A.M Santana Sage
was the only one with the car and he
always drove everyone around with TK and
pimps in the front and back they left
and pulled up to a stoplight when
another vehicle pulled alongside them
from here forward it's unsure what
exactly happened next but we do know
that Santana Sage fired a gun into the
other vehicle killing a 21 year old
college student Sarah musslinger In Cold
Blood driving off with TK and pimps as
the passengers he was later arrested
after police used his Twitter account to
match the vehicle it was a series of
Twitter posts that they say Led Led them
to Johnson all the way from this New
Year's Eve party that they say he
attended his defense was that the
Daytona boys were being called racial
slurs by the other car and that provoked
Santana but he only meant to scare them
with the gunshots but it didn't matter
an innocent girl was dead and her
parents were left to wonder why we'll be
okay TK and pimps however were both
Miners and face no charges their name
weren't even mentioned in court and when
you can just walk away from something
that big it makes you feel invincible
after a six-month trial a jury only took
three hours to find Santana Sage guilty
and gave him 44 years in prison we the
jury find the defendant Eric Jamal
Johnson guilty of the offense of murder
TK was still only 15 years old at that
time he had no money nowhere to live and
was not legally allowed to work he
needed a way to survive and he had to do
something
on July 26 2016 TK pimps and five others
would formulate a plan Sean Robinson
lotharian Marriott Arianna Barrett Megan
Holt and a minor named Mia together they
made a plan to Rob Mia's boyfriend 17
year old Zachary bellitt while he was
inside of his home their plan would go
like this Zachary and his roommate Ethan
were staying at a house located on the
1500 Block of Mansfield Texas TK and the
six others met in an apartment where
they gathered weapons and talked over
the plan pimps got brass knuckles and
two of the men grabbed guns TK was
unarmed and says he told the group to
have his back in case anything went down
Mia and her two friends Ariana and Megan
left to Zachary's house around 5 PM they
made it seem as if they just wanted to
smoke and hang out but what Zachary
didn't know was that TK pimps Sean and
lotharian were waiting down the street
in a car for a text message it seemed
simple enough but that night there
plants quickly fell apart
[Music]
when the three girls arrived they were
surprised to see there was a lot more
people in the home than they expected
and this pushed their plans back by
hours but they couldn't wait forever 10
pm was approaching TK and the others
became impatient as well feeling like it
was now or never the girls decided to go
ahead with their plan and made their way
to the door to unlock it when no one was
looking four men burst into the home two
of them armed with guns Sean held
Zachary at gunpoint and lotharian held
Ethan Walker at gunpoint with TK and
pimp still looking for anything of value
but they came short of what they were
promised the next few minutes happened
fast but when they hesitated lotharian
panicked and without even remember doing
it he shot Ethan Walker in the stomach
killing him
Sean would panic at the same time after
hearing the first shot go off and he
would shoot Zachary striking him in his
shoulder but only injuring him they knew
they messed up and it was only a matter
of time of when they got caught
in this now famous video that shows take
a crying during his interrogation
prosecutors and investigators were
trying to figure out what exactly
happened that night he finally broke
down and admitted to robbing but he says
he never shot or knew that anyone would
be killed Feud 6 video of Teen rapper
tay-k as police questioned him about his
role in a deadly home invasion in
Mansfield he had just turned 16 years
old and was being held in juvenile
detention for two weeks until an adult
could pick him up his sister Kayla had
just bought her apartment after saving
up for months and could now be his
Guardian since she turned 18. I had got
my apartment like I said we didn't have
a lot of family like that and Kimbo you
get released juveniles get released they
at some point they're gonna get released
you know so like he got released to me I
had my apartment I was 18. he was
officially released by a juvenile court
judge only if he agreed to wear a
constant surveillance ankle monitor
pimps was also released on house arrest
and stayed close with TK where they
would talk online every night police
kept Kayla's apartment on constant
surveillance and pulled over anyone who
left their building TK spent most of his
time online tweeting out things like
this asking his friends to come over and
record since he was on house arrest
releasing only a few songs on Soundcloud
at the time he was saving the rest for
something else the world hadn't really
heard of TK's name yet but he saw a
marketing opportunity where nobody else
did from July of 2016 all the way to
March of 2017 almost eight months he
stayed locked in his room thinking about
his next move the stress was getting to
him although only 16 he was looking to
be charged as an adult he had no lawyer
no money and didn't know what was going
to happen to him then he had an idea
go out my way
hey hey
on Sunday March 26 2017 late into the
night TK would post this now Infamous
tweet saying he was done with house
arrest and social media would spread it
around he called pimps and the two made
a plan they would both cut their ankle
monitors off and make it clear to the
world that this was all a game to them
and if police wanted them they were
gonna have to play hide and seek they
needed to get out of town and their
first stop would be three hours away in
San Antonio where they laid low for a
few weeks TK had no regard for being
wanted he was spotted by fans at malls
or even ordering food at local spots
pimps had been messaging a photographer
for a few days named Mark salvadar who
lived around the San Antonio area and
they were planning to meet up to take
pictures but in reality TK and pimps
needed money and they planned to rob an
innocent man of his camera equipment
they plan to meet around 5 PM near an
empty parking garage mark would show up
and hop into the car to smoke and when
he got inside they would take everything
he had and then forcefully kick him out
of the vehicle but when this went down
things didn't go according to planned
again Mar art began yelling as loud as
he could for help and he ran toward the
street they sped up after him trying to
run him over but he landed on the hood
and held on as they drove off they had
to pull into a Chick-fil-A parking lot
nearby to get him off when the car
stopped Mark got up stomped on the
windshield as hard as he could breaking
it this agitated TK and he allegedly
leaned out the window and shot him
flinging his body onto the ground and
leaving him there to die unknowing that
this was all captured by a nearby
surveillance now only one thing mattered
to take a and pims they had the camera
equipment and a little bit of money to
get to their next stop but they needed
to stop by home in Arlington first
foreign
[Music]
by now San Antonio police had already
tied taking pimps to the murder of Mark
from last month at Chick-fil-A realizing
they needed to leave immediately they
plan to go on a 23-hour car ride in New
Jersey where they knew a few people in a
place to stay any money they had left
would be used just to get there and they
needed every dollar he even had someone
willing to do a music video for free if
he went to Jersey
by now it was early June police were
receiving tips on his whereabouts
posting water posters in areas they
believed the two to be of course TK only
saw this as another marketing
opportunity and decided to make a song
about his race from the police he
started the market opportunity when he
saw his Market opportunity you know he
did create a song called the race
he's running around he's showing the you
know they got my face on this whatever
whatever
poked fun at the whole process of people
actually looking for him it was perfect
timing and to make it better he wanted
to release the song on his birthday
those following his SoundCloud and
Twitter were the first to hear the song
but there was no video just yet TK along
with the help of a cameraman would film
the music video to the race the
following day and he didn't charge him a
penny for it it would only take about a
day to edit the video but it was ready
whenever TK was the two spent their last
weeks of Freedom hiding and eluding the
law in New Jersey Marshals could tell
they were getting close to capturing him
and at this point it was simply a matter
of when
please
exactly two weeks after his birthday
both were eventually apprehended in a
New Jersey home a total of three months
spanning 96 days and the race had
finally ended June 30th 2017.
but TK still had one more trick up his
sleeve and he wanted the whole world to
know his story before he went down just
two hours after he was arrested the
music video to the race was uploaded to
YouTube The Story of this shooter kid
who ran from the U.S Marshals and filmed
a music video while doing it people were
instantly engaged and social media
pushed it to every corner of the
internet people couldn't help but tune
into the song as it was getting hundreds
of thousands of views every day showing
no signs of slowing down some of the
first remixes and endorsements by other
rappers showed up in the hashtag free TK
was being posted but nobody really
acknowledged what he was now facing now
law enforcement wanted to make an
example out of TK and Texas shows no
mercy for the crime of murder a month
after being arrested a judge ruled to
sentence him as an adult at 17 years old
but in the outside world the race had
gotten almost 20 million views by now
and some record labels were taking
notice he would still sign a deal amid
two murder charges using all of his past
songs they released a project titled
Santana world with the race headlining
the project and of course it was very
successful
over the course of the next six months
the race would accumulate over 100
million views including a remix from 21
Savage and young nudie making him one of
the only artists in history to have a
massive hit song and never perform it
yet he still appeared to have high hopes
of beating his case and coming out the
other side of free man to him living in
jail was only a temporary thing and he
would soon be out but now early into
2018 sentences for the 2016 murder of
Ethan Walker began being handed out
thank you
the first to go down was Megan Holt who
was sentenced to 20 years in February
the courts recognized her as The
Mastermind behind the whole thing while
Mia Zach's girlfriend had been
cooperating and working closely with the
police and in exchange was only given a
10-year probation sentence the dominoes
around TK were starting to fall
he had already been denied Bond and now
the state district judge was upset with
the internet support for him here's what
he said it's my understanding that
people throughout this country have free
TK signs up and this court has a problem
with that
just after his bail was denied lotharian
Merit was also sentenced to 40 years
after being named the person who shot
Ethan Walker and the gunman later in
June the media reported that TK was
being sued by Mark Salvador's parents
for one million dollars in Damages for
the Chick-fil-A killing this is after
finding out he had become a superstar
since his capture almost a year before
the following month in July the parents
of Ethan Walker and Zachary below would
follow Sue seeking an additional 1
million dollars from the profits made
off of the race while this is happening
Adam 22 was able to get an exclusive
10-minute phone interview from jail
where TK would tell the world he was
going to be out soon that's crazy to
think about that you probably would have
already seen the world right now if you
if you weren't locked up like there's
crazy amount of opportunities to be
available to you right now
but during this interview he also made a
huge mistake by admitting he had an iPad
in his jail cell
just days later he would have a
Shakedown where the iPad was found with
Adam later even stating he felt guilty
for it happening the management did not
ask me to remove the part where he
talked about having an iPad and so then
he gets in solitary all kinds of
whatever additional charges because he
had an iPad and he's just in jail using
the iPad by August take a transfer from
the Tarrant County Jail in Texas to a
maximum security long evidence
Corrections Center being put into a
solitary confinement cell for 23 hours a
day but he never lost his positive
optimism and he posted a picture of
himself on Twitter the caption read live
from the gates of hell
she said
the murder charges for Ethan Walker were
coming to a close and another sentence
was handed to Ariana Barrett for
aggravated robbery in exchange for her
testifying against the remaining three
men she was only given 25 years a week
after that Sean Robinson was given 40
years for the murder pimps and TK were
still left waiting for their sentence
Bolton died for a second murder charge
of Mark Salvador pimps was even offered
a deal to testify against AKA but he
never turned his back to him it was
still a Brotherhood there and loyalty
was forever but in November of 2018
pimps would pay the ultimate price for
his crimes pleading guilty to two counts
of aggravated robbery of Ethan Walker
and Mark Salvador being given 30 years
just like that TK's best friend was gone
now he was the final man standing and
the world wanted to know what was going
to happen to him but no one as much as
he wanted to know
the jury deliberated for a little longer
than three hours today here before
deciding on that 55-year sentence that
song in July of 2019 his trial finally
began three years of evidence and
testimonies being gathered and
prosecutors had a strong case
he pleaded guilty for aggravated robbery
but not the murderer his defense argued
that he was a miner who played the least
significant role but it was apparent the
jury had already heard enough the lyrics
for the race were legally being used
against him and they even stated that he
thrived off the violence and showed no
remorse for his actions his trial only
lasted one week and by that Friday the
jury unanimously decided that he was
guilty taymor says he was only 16 and
misguided at the time when this all
happened claiming he was never given a
chance to be an adult his misguided
childhood is sad but should never be
used as an excuse for taking the lives
of others turning 22 years old from
behind a cell TK has definitely matured
and is more open to talking about his
treatment in prison and he argues the
question is he rightfully owed a second
chance to make things right
foreign
[Music]
