on this particular episode we're going
to be talking about the response of
prophet or wise man John Chi H who was a
wise man to TV Joshua for I think about
over 15 to 20 years and this particular
episode I'm going to be doing it with
leadership bed Africa leadership yes sir
how are you so great to be back on the
show number number number one as I I
spoke to you guys we're going to be
doing a lot of collaborations so on this
particular episode we're going to talk
about John ch's response but there's
going to be another part that b is going
to post I'll put I'll leave it down in
the pinned comment on that video we're
going to talk about leadership you want
to tell them what we're going to focus
on yeah I think for me what's on my
heart is you know a lot of people in
this discussion you've got two groups
one group is saying No this guy has
passed away let's leave him then you
know and then there's another side of
the story is that there are people who
are hurt and there it seems to be a
thing that's continuing in our community
and it's not just happening in the
church we see even in the fake goas they
also abusing people there so what's on
my heart is how do you discern when you
are part of a cult what is a cult you
know those sort of things and I think
you're going to highlight in this video
as well that it's really about following
Jesus and about following the word and
not following people so that's what I'll
be looking at my brother awesome stuff
so on this video we'll talk about one
person's response and then we'll
highlight this particular element uh but
then the the further aspect of it we'll
deal with it on bat's videos all right
so uh leadership do you want to pop up
that uh video we're not going to play it
but I'm just gonna we're just going to
pop it up so please pop up the video
John Ministries that's the thumbnail
that actually highlights the the video
leadership do you remember particularly
what you were saying so uh he was
basically saying Prophet to be Joshua
was a father to him is somebody who
taught him the word discipled him so
he's not really coming out and saying
I'm defending him but he's just saying
this is who he was to me you know in
other words versus what the other guys
are saying he's saying I'm also a
disciple and he's basically say saying I
didn't see anything wrong basically yeah
yeah so if if a person is new to the
stuff this is how this guy defend okay
uh this is how these guys win each other
or win each other's following uh this
has nothing to do with whether this
person has seen anything or is given a
testimony about the character of the
person it's not otherwise he would have
posted this video yesterday or day
before yesterday or before then before
he post it right now when the trend of
the BBC comes out so that it can pick up
the people that follow TB
Joshua okay and so this is their way of
saying you know what to those TP Joshua
followers who no longer have a home come
to my
church new synagogue over here new
synagogue over here all of the people
that you hear coming out with these type
of things don't fall for it it's a trick
mentality they always do that
stuff absolutely and uh you know the the
guys are very smart because they're not
saying not addressing what other people
are saying but just talking from your
side but leadership you'll remember that
there was a scandal
withi Zacharias very recently as well
passed away and then when he passed away
a lot of people came out uh talking
about what had happened but I I just
found the response of the church like
synagogue of of Nations very different
to how the organiz ation of Ravi
zakarias responded so those guys what
they did is they straight away conducted
an investigation to find out if these
things are true or not and in fact his
daughter was the CEO of the organization
and she's the one who came out and said
we did an investigation and it turns out
that these things are true this is
somebody from the family so and then you
look at the response on the other side
the guys are just saying no it's
false they don't want to actually
investigate let some privately look at
these things you know yeah that's a very
good point because Ravi yo you know I
used to admire ravi's way of responding
to questions and what I be like yo this
guy is like there he's like there you
know and so when those things came out
they were very heartbreaking
definitely but then don't dismiss the
error of a human being uh investigate
ask questions what investigations have
these people done they've not done any
they've just come out and said you know
what this is common people always do
this you're so Superior to error to it's
just ridiculous leadership I think let's
back what we are saying with scripture
so First Corinthians chapter number
three verse one it says brothers and
sisters I could not address you as
people who live by the spirit but as
people who are still worldly near
infants in Christ I gave you milk not
solid food for you were not yet ready
for it indeed you are still not ready
you are still worldly for since there is
jealousy and quarreling among you you
are not are you not worldly are you not
acting like mere humans for when one
says I follow another and I follow
Apollos You Are Not Mere
humans and then he says what after all
is Apollos and what after all is Paul oh
only servants through whom you came to
believe as the Lord had assigned to each
his task I planted the seed Apollos
watered it but God has been making it
grow so neither one who plants nor the
one who Waters is anything but only God
who makes things grow I could not
address to you as antip spiritual so uh
if you've read uh First Corinthians
chapter number I think it's 2 Corinth
chapter number 5 verse 16 and he died
for all that those who live should no
longer live for themselves but to live
for him who died for them as was raised
again so from now on WE regard no one
from a worldly point of view though we
once regarded Christ in this way we do
so no
longer and then it goes on therefore If
any man be in Christ he is a new
creature so before he gets to If any man
is Christ he says we don't
regard those who are believers as in the
flesh and so when he says it it makes it
now a big deal when he says I cannot reg
you unto spiritual because you're still
functioning by moral no way Covenant
basically right we know that the noi
Covenant is the is the law that will
that will govern the judge J that God
gives unto all
men and so you're still functioning
under no Covenant ideas by by human
logic you're not you're not thinking
spiritually
God and so he says I have fed you then
he talks about why does he say this so
there's a certain teaching I gave you I
expected you guys to be living up to the
standard of what that truth
is
he says I I fed you with milk this was
my responsibility I did my
part and not with meat either he were
not able to Bear it he says if I had
given you difficult things I'll would
say you misunderstood and just never
ventured into it I gave you what was
fitting sure no it's hectic it's hectic
it makes it worse you know yeah at first
if he had given them difficult stuff
okay but he gave them simple stuff that
was meat for now why am I bringing up
this verse before we get to the part
where he talks about Apollo and
everything the reason why a lot of
people are
busy I I speak I stand with ti Joshua TI
Joshua is what T and this ones who are
also coming out and making their defense
of TV Joshua without sounding like
that it's because they never matured in
what they were given at first
absolutely so every single person has a
responsibility to the knowledge of the
Gospel that they are
given so that's why he says in the Bible
it will be worse for for you
than because those of Sodom did not have
the gospel the way it is plain for you
guys absolutely so degrees of judgment
goes with what was placed before you so
there are people in church claiming to
understand the scripture as leadership
and they don't understand you you can't
come out and speak of a human being
within that
light then he goes then he goes on and
he says for ye are wherein are there
amongst you strives ER Envy
divisions are he not caral and walk as M
men this way it shows you that he's
talking about people that are born again
then he says who is
Apollo PA what is Paul and
Apollos oh my God he's including himself
and he says who am I but just
vessel that conduct that spoke the
message to you guys it is God that's the
center absolutely leadership any
thoughts
yeah I think you've said it all and I'm
I'm trying to not go into what we're
going to say on our video because I can
see that the links are there but I think
you've already said it leadership it's
just who is Paul who is Apollo who is
Tip Joshua who is if you are putting
those people on the same L level with
Christ you've got a problem I think it
just calls on all of us to check how do
we relate to our leaders you know are we
putting them on the level with Christ or
is Christ exclusive that's a question
for all of us that that's what I would
say we need to really look look at at
that last point would be this
um people don't understand when we talk
about Systematic Theology you know the
thing that I like about the the way the
doctrine is laid out in Systematic
Theology is that there is the doctrine
of man so it tells you who is man what
is he where is he you know and when you
read Romans chapter number 7 it tells
you sin is dwelling in this issue this
is the this is the thing yeah that's by
the way that by the way is still
awaiting its day of redemption my spirit
is redeemed absolutely tame yourself
even Paul says you know I bid my body to
submission yeah Paul said that he said I
bring my body I am the one who's
dragging my body like a lamb to the
slaughter
to
submission amen so you don't know how
loose these people become and if you
allow one error it can corrupt a lot the
whole thing yeah you know and so just a
reminder you know as we are not we are
not your church
leaders no absolutely not all we are are
messengers social media you come across
our videos you pass and that's pretty
much it that's all our interaction but
bear in mind that these particular
voices that you are hearing and so forth
might be the last link for you to for
your area of conviction that area where
you become loose to allow
error leadership if I had error and you
defended me it would be a problem that's
a problem you're going against God yes
because now it's no longer that you know
Ricky is my friend no that's not the
issue you're going against truth if
Ricky does something Ricky must
understand the standard is truth
absolutely yeah and if Ricky does not
agree with the fact that leadership you
are rebuking him and saying Ricky you're
going into error
here if Ricky doesn't care on on the
standard of truth I would rather
distance
myself absolutely than to deny them the
of TR truth has a standard yeah
absolutely and a lot of people they they
mixmash this things and you know Paul
actually goes further in that when he
says H he says verse 9 of First
Corinthians chapter number three he says
we are laborers together with God that's
all we
are we are laborers with God now the the
that's why the the scone Church can't
even tell you till date this is how far
they want to to remove the humanity of
the men till date they have still not
told you what killed T Joshua
yeah because they can't have a man
preaching healing dying of sickness of
sickness yeah it projects weakness IT
projects weakness but then if you if you
understand we are in a fallen world we
are human yeah yeah what's what's the
wrong no Ricky they shot him yeah you
see he died violently no we in we in
human yeah he wasn't God yeah and so
this will then extend into B's video
where we're going to talk about this
idea of humans dis disappearing
completely and thing so y'all guys check
it out down in the pin comments and I'm
going check you out leadership do you
have any closing words no I just think
yeah for me my heart is still sitting on
on the fact that we as a church must
still look at at ourselves before we
preach the gospel outside you know
there's a sad story of uh you know zakus
trying to get to Christ and uh he's
prevented by the crowds you know he just
can't get close to Christ because the
crowd is in the way and so for me when
people don't come to God or can't come
to God because they are prevented by us
as the church the people who are closer
to God are the ones that are supposed to
enable people to come close to God but
yet we are the stumbling block you know
and and Christ says woe unto him who
causes people to stumble or people to to
go away from Christ so for me it's it's
really it's not even about TB Joshua to
me uh because I think like he was
talking about the doctrine of humanity
all of us are capable of being a TB
Joshua so how does one prevent
themselves from not going there and I
think it's for me it's living according
to the standard of the word the that you
elevate people and you elevate yourself
money power and all those things look at
what's happening with with even uh
Bishop TD Jakes it's the same thing you
know whether he's guilty or not what was
he doing at a party where people are
twering and all those things what
standard are we setting for ourselves as
the church like this verse you spoke
about where Paul says no man there's no
difference between you and the world you
are just doing the same thing following
the world and and and you're following
power and money but we have to be set
apart we have to be different so that's
where my heart is is what's stopping you
from becoming a t Joshua and I think
it's it's it's when we live according to
the standard of the word and really
apply it to our lives and and not just
play lip service but really are you are
you obeying Christ are you following
Christ or are you following people you
know what I'm saying yeah no let's make
an effort let's make an effort
change
something change something it it it
truly matters what you change change
something don't let's make an effort
towards Christ it's Ricky and B right
don't forget that video down in the pin
comments yall have a good one
