you're sheltering enemies of the state
are you not
yes
you shall bring them underneath your
floors aren't you yes
point out to me the areas where they're
hiding this is the opening scene of
inglorious bastards and it is well
relatively terrifying what starts out as
a sunny day on a french dairy farm
quickly devolves into a paranoia
drenched life or death interrogation
culminating with the brutal murder of a
hidden jewish family tarantino is a
master of using intriguing and almost
musical dialogue to drive attention this
works in part because tarantino is a
perfectionist brad pitt went as far to
say after filming glorious bastards that
tarantino's set places him as god and
there is no blasphemy perfectionism can
be a blessing and a curse when it comes
to filmmaking for sure sometimes
perfectionism can lead to a film's
budget ballooning from delays and
reshoots but on the other hand a
director who believes in his project and
his writing so much as to settle for
nothing less than his vision can result
in pretty amazing pieces of cinema and
that's kind of what we're looking at
here the sixth film in tarantino canon
was almost scrapped entirely for a
variety of reasons one of those reasons
was that the script had leaked online a
few years prior to release but another
huge reason was that tarantino was
having trouble finding an actor who
could deliver the performance necessary
to make slander work for a while it was
actually leonardo dicaprio who was in
line to play the film's primary
antagonist for all intents and purposes
dicaprio would have probably been
relatively fine he's fluent in german
and could certainly deliver a powerful
performance but tarantino is again a
perfectionist the performance was going
to be absolutely perfect or the film
wasn't going to happen at all tarantino
has even gone on record as to say that
he thought the character might be
unplayable a day before he was about to
scrap the project entirely he met
christoph waltz and was gobsmacked with
the perfection and ease with which he
approached the character he was actually
instructed to hold back his performance
during rehearsals tarantino didn't want
the cast to know how good he actually
was so he instructed boltz to give
everyone a six instead of a 10 during
that process false was told that if he
felt actors begin to get competitive
with him that he was to lose and in turn
the only actor who actually got to see a
full-blown full effort performance
during pre-production was denim and
o'shea who played pierre la pardi in the
film's opening sequence the decision to
hold vaults back was made so that the
actors would have a more authentic
reaction to this well one-of-a-kind
performance this scene in general is
incredibly well written it tells a
complete story that could almost act as
a standalone short film in 19 minutes it
opens on leopardy chopping firewood on
top of a hill there is this rhythmic
quality to which these chops take place
each one of these extraps are about one
second apart this is important because
it sets a cadence we begin the scene
with the sound of what is essentially a
ticking clock as the camera pans to a
small fleet of german troops approaching
this farm when hans arrives we know
there is trouble afoot his uniform alone
could tell you that but the confidence
with which he enters the room gives us
the feeling of a python entering a
hamster cage the contrasting stature of
these actors tells you all you need to
know immediately despite the fact that
this farmer could undoubtably kill hans
very easily by hand if she so desired
han still sort of floats through the
room as if he owns the place while
everyone else around him is trying to
contain sheer and utter terror it's all
subtle and all oh so intimidating now
fultz himself could write a book on how
to be threatening and charming at the
same time and hans seems as cordial and
polite as any house guest could possibly
be but it's the lack of warmth and
pleasantries shown against this sort of
overt politeness that really send a
threatening message to the viewer and
this is again done not through faults
alone but also through the writing he
pauses a little longer than usual he
owes eye contact for just a second too
long and tarantino directs a performance
that has that cadence we already
discussed
and adversely the la perdi family can't
and doesn't look at hans for more than a
brief moment one of the first things
hans does upon entering the home is
request a glass of milk it's not an
usual request after all this is a dairy
farm but by doing this hans puts himself
in this position of status he's letting
the family know that they are there to
serve him in this moment after excusing
the family and reaffirming a spirit of
trust by bringing up the fact that he
left his soldiers outside hans and
pierre can finally get down to brass
tacks we at this point have no idea what
exactly is going on we just know that
this family is likely in danger it's
usually the case when you have a period
piece that in world war ii and germans
are involved but pierre is particularly
on edge about something that we haven't
quite been able to comprehend yet the
request to switch to the english
language might come off as a pandering
to an american audience and by all means
it may very well be however tarantino
spins this later on in a somewhat
brilliant way but we'll get to that in
just a moment hans quickly deserves his
dominance over the entire situation by
forcing pierre to acknowledge that he
knows who hans is by reputation alone
please tell me what you've heard
i've heard
that the fear has put you in charge of
running up the jews left in france
there's a signal of submission to his
authority and again it is done through
this wolf in sheep's clothing utterly
disarming niceness once the power
dynamic has been established pierre
quickly shifts to more of a bartering
phase and out of nervousness goes for
his pipe to calm his nerves after some
light reassurances that this is just a
doubling of efforts in the spirit of
thoroughness hans brings up one specific
jewish family that has been left
unaccounted for while very carefully
making pierre explain in detail what he
remembers about the missing family names
ages descriptions we think he's just
getting information but hans is really
interrogating pierre pierre is giving
away everything he knows as the camera
slowly pans around the table tarantino's
way of telling us that literally and
figuratively the tables have in fact
turned we get the full picture as the
camera pans down under the floorboards
and we see the aforementioned jewish
family huddled in a crawl space hiding
their breathing so as not to give away
their secret they are almost being
crushed by the weight of what is
transpiring above them this is an
eye-opening moment for the viewer as we
now understand that an entire family's
life is at stake and the stakes of the
situation in general are much braver
than we initially anticipated so after
they wrap up the details hans asks for
one final glass of milk making pierre
serve it to him is again just another
psychological twist of the knife before
making his final power play by forcing
pierre to call him by his nickname that
they call you to johan
precisely
from this point on hans plays out his
winning hand one card at a time he loves
this moniker because he earned that
moniker hanz asks if he might be able to
smoke his pipe and boom almost comical
as well like a looney tunes gag a way
for hans to insult pierre before going
in for the kill and a message to pierre
that the game is over hans drops all the
pleasantries and tells peer that he
knows everything the jig is up facial
expressions shift into something more
monstrous and hans tells pierre that he
not only knows that he is hiding jews in
his home but that they are under the
floorboards exactly where we've seen
them before this is where tarantino's
stroke of brilliance with the languages
comes into play from a filmmaking
standpoint switching to english for the
scene would likely ease producers
concerns of an american movie-going
audience's ability to understand the
film without being confused but within
the structure of this scene hans knowing
that the family was under the floorboard
from the moment he walked into the room
we now know he switched to english so
that they couldn't understand what was
happening when pierre was forced to give
them up hans resumes his ruse and the
family is murdered in the dirt they were
hiding in shashana running away is the
final image we have in the scene and
hans allows her to live his final words
feel like they are left unfinished
as if he was going to add until we meet
again he doesn't care if she lives or
dies because he views her as lesser as a
rodent nothing more nothing less it just
so happens though that this moment gives
this rodent the resolve to lock every
high-ranking german official in a
crowded theater and bring them alive
later in the film this 19-minute opening
scene of in glorious bastards is a
masterpiece of not only storytelling and
writing but also acting it should come
as no surprise that christophel won an
oscar for his performance in the film
because he was able to capture a variety
of different emotions attitudes and
really personalities in ways that turn a
human being who by all accounts in real
life is very nice into something much
more sinister and inhuman this may not
be a case of casting the right actor in
the right role it may very well be a
case of casting the only actor who could
conceivably play this role with any
level of believability the scene being a
testament to how keeping that perfection
in your sights without compromise can
yield amazing results well that's it for
today's episode of nostalgic if you
enjoyed this one press like button down
below if you haven't done so also
subscribe that way you won't miss
anything
right now two more episodes you can
click right here or right here to stay
and hopefully i'll see you guys in the
next one
