West Yorkshire has the highest burglary
rate in the country and there's a
particular type of break-in that started
here in Bradford that's on the increase
as I've been finding out there's a lock
that's fitted to millions of homes up
and down the country that can be broken
in seconds my one wish would be to get
rid of all these cylinders and the very
weak still sell them in DIY stars they
said the laptops have gone the mo bars
have gone everything's gone the Xbox has
gone everything that was down here that
was sellable believe it or not it will
only take two minutes 30 seconds to go
through a whole house this is what's
called a euro Profile lock and they're
fitted to millions of homes across the
country usually in uPVC doors now the
problem is that some burglars have
discovered how easy it is to break them
and then walk in through your front door
locks snapping first started in the
Bradford area and now more than a
quarter of all burglaries in West
Yorkshire use this method
Peter Findlay is a career burglar who's
recently been released from prison he
says he's now going straight but reckons
he's burgled literally thousands of
homes so what does he make of the Euro
cylinder locks if I add the best block
picks in England don't bother using them
just snap lock it's more simpler quicker
and it's a problem that's growing since
2009 the figures for this type of
burglary have risen steadily in West
Yorkshire so what can be done about it
if you're not sure about the standard
and quality of your locks contact your
local crime reduction officer who will
provide advice free of charge and think
about getting in touch with one of the
not-for-profit organisations of which
there are a number in West Yorkshire
alone the Association of Chief police
officers are working with the door and
lock industry to come up with a new
British standard for locks but at the
moment there are no locks on the market
which come up to the new standard
the locks are vulnerable to to this to
the specific type of attack but it can
take anything between 50 seconds and and
2 minutes to to force the lock what we'd
want to do is ensure that the new
british standard locks are a lot
stronger than that and can resist attack
I wouldn't want to put specific time
frame on it but certainly the testing is
extensive and the new locks are now in
the process of being tested
so between 50 seconds and 2 minutes
we've been told that many of these locks
can be broken a lot quicker than that
time to find out to demonstrate just how
easy it is to break into one of these
locks we've brought in a form of burglar
who's now a security expert and he's
going to show us how it's done and we're
going to time him the member of the
public has allowed us to test the theory
on their front door okay the doors
locked so Michael you're happy with what
you're doing yeah now we can't obviously
show exactly how you break in but ready
when you are
okay I'm really okay
you
Michael that was 42 seconds that was
slow was it very slow only a bit rusty
that but how easy is that to get in
really to be honest with you our very
very surprised that easy it was because
that broke off the cylinder so easy and
all out to do then is actually type of
mechanism out and I mean that really
shows just how easy it is is get in it's
amazing absolutely amazing when you look
at the security on the the actual
locking and yet you can get through that
cylinder so easy totally amazed 42
seconds and to be fair this isn't
something you're doing every day either
isn't so someone who knows what they're
doing I mean who knows how fast that
could have been I reckon you could cut
that down to 15 seconds really it's
quite worried on his Nettie's big worry
we've arranged for security company
kasich to fix the householders broken
lock the managing director Neil is not
at all surprised at how quickly Michael
was able to get in it's breezy to his
first time Michaels actually attempted
to do that and as I said it was very
very shocked we see it doing Dale so if
you took this kind of lock out of
circulation would that go a long way to
helping yes that my one wish would be to
get rid of all these delivers but that's
easier said than done although many
councils and housing associations have
locked replacement programs there are
still hundreds of thousands of these
euro cylinder locks on homes across
Yorkshire
Woodhouse in Leeds and this is an
increasingly familiar site for scenes of
crime officers across West Yorkshire
it's about three o'clock this morning
and I woke up because I heard a loud
bang and so I went to wake up my
boyfriend he got up and went downstairs
we had to look outside the window but we
couldn't see anyone around and so we
went back to bed and didn't think much
more of it when we got up this morning
to go to work we open the front door and
we found that the outside of the front
door lock had actually been sort of
prized open a sort of jimmied open and
Rebecca is by no means alone locksmiths
working for this security firm reckon
they've been called out almost every day
two break-ins where the lock has been
snapped the policeman came around this
morning had look at the lock he
explained that really it's thought it
was a more old-fashioned type of lock
and he was the one who recommended that
we actually had the new style of lock
first in only a couple of days after
Rebecca Khan was burgled Kasich are busy
attending another lock snapping burglary
this time in the Farley area of Leeds I
didn't realize the extent of it until my
husband came down behind me he said the
laptops have gone the mobiles have gone
everything's gone the Xbox has gone
everything that was down here that was
sellable Christine had thought her locks
were secure but she certainly doesn't
know I was advised this morning that if
I took it through my insurance company
they would probably do like for like and
I wasn't happy at the thought of that
because I wouldn't feel safe in this
house if they put the same kind of locks
back on so I just made some inquiries
and the police advised man that's why
we've got these in
with so many locks on the market it can
be confusing so if you're not sure about
how good your locks are the best advice
is to talk to your local crime reduction
officer
