[Music]
on the vast open spaces of the Kalahari
Desert it's hard to find a place where
such high concentration of animals can
be seen water holes and pans which are
crucial sources of drinking water
attract wild animals such as these
amazing antelope
[Music]
among this small herd of antelope you
can see a huge long-legged bird with a
matching long neck
[Music]
this is a male African ostrich it's
peering into the distance and evaluating
the situation
[Music]
standing more than eight feet tall with
its acute eyesight the ostrich can see a
danger at the distance of many miles its
family is waiting for it nearby
[Music]
the male is trying to drink water
cautiously bending its head to the
ground but constantly looking around at
its surroundings maybe it saw a predator
[Music]
finally the ostrich took the first sip
of water while raising the head to look
around one more time it lets water get
to its digestive tract through the long
esophagus
[Music]
after making sure that the place is safe
and water is tasty the male returns to
its offspring
[Music]
two females are waiting patiently
looking after their chicks
[Music]
after reporting the situation by the
water the head of the family invites
others to follow it
[Music]
chicks born from different females are
members of the same family that is
headed by a male dominant
these babies are only a few weeks old
they've spent a month and a half in eggs
protected by a solid egg shell an
ostrich egg is the largest egg in the
world but compared to the body size of
the adult bird they're small now they're
trying to make steps but soon they will
run at speeds up to 43 miles per hour in
the mean time they stick together being
the shadow of their great parents the
wildlife is full of dangers there are a
lot of predators who want to eat these
young chicks the adult bird has
practically no enemies but baby chicks
are vulnerable
thus their parents are always on the
alert ostriches become brave and very
aggressive during the breeding season
they react to any moving object rushing
to it immediately
first the bird raises both wings high
above its body trying to scare the enemy
and if it doesn't work an ostrich rushes
at the enemy and travels at doubts the
bird can easily reach speeds of up to 55
miles per hour so it's blow is powerful
enough to smash the skull of a lion
[Music]
no one African animal dares to start
fighting with a huge ostrich that weighs
more than 300 pounds but some enemies
like hyenas and jackals can divert and
ostriches attention by attacking it in
groups while the male tries to scare one
predator away the others manage to steal
an end or a chick out of the nest
meanwhile angry females also try to help
the male
[Music]
having kicked the coyote this caring
father returns quickly to its family
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
birds of prey that threatened the chicks
are going to suffer the same fate as
those other predators
[Music]
the rest of the ostriches are waiting
patiently at a safe distance until the
Finley stakes the first once all enemies
have been eliminated they can continue
to enjoy a drink
[Music]
baby ostriches have quenched their
thirst and are now ready to follow their
parents
[Music]
ostriches are polygamous birds a harem
of females gather around the male but
each group always has a dominant female
females lay eggs into a shallow pit that
has been dug by the male that will
incubate the a every night a dominant
male sits on the eggs warming them with
the heat of its body until the Sun
appears this male has only two wives but
lots of worries their wings bodies and
Tails are fully feathered and a head
neck and legs are nearly bare covered
with short down the lowest part of their
leg is covered with scales
[Music]
male African ostriches have a visible
sexual dimorphism with females being
larger with black and white plumage
males are mostly gray or brown and small
moreover different subspecies of the
African ostrich can differ in the color
of the legs and beat some of them have
sandy grey legs while others have
partially bright pink or completely red
legs there was a stretch of time where
ostrich feathers became a fashion craze
hostages were nearly brought to
extinction by hunting ignorant people
used them for their own purposes
making ostrich feather hats and women's
hats as a result such subspecies as the
Arabian ostrich was exterminated by
humans today ostriches are bred all over
the world
ostriches lead a settled way of life
living in small groups of five up to 50
Birds that form flies they often graze
alongside other large herbivores such as
zebras and antelopes why can't a
Sturgess fly the fact is they're flat
breast bones lack the keel that anchors
the strong pectoral muscles required for
flight but these huge birds have adapted
to running fast they can cover up to 16
feet per stride with their long legs the
ideal habitat for them is a tropical
grassland where they have a good grip
reaching high speeds really it's a piece
of cake to bury a head in such a rough
terrain this myth more than likely began
with Pliny the Elder a Roman author who
wrote them
ostriches imagine when they have thrust
their head and neck into a bush that the
whole of their body is concealed over
time this statement turned into a
popular belief that ostriches bury their
heads in the sand when scared
in fact ostriches don't do anything like
that
[Music]
these two males are courting one female
it's the perfect time to perform a poor
chip dance and the female will choose
the best answer
[Music]
ostriches feed mainly on plants but
their diet can also include insects and
even small lizards they swallow small
rocks and pebbles to help rind up food
in their gizzard an adult ostrich can
carry about 2.2 pounds of stones in its
gizzard another little-known feature of
ostriches is the separate excretion of
urine and feces all other birds excrete
urine and feces in the form of uric acid
but the ostrich is unique among birds in
having two separate systems for liquid
and solid wastes it's the only bird in
the world that has a bladder ostriches
don't have a goiter but their neck is so
flexible they can swallow the prey
complete
the ostrich is an unusual bird to find
in Africa deprived at the ability to fly
ostriches are fast runners these birds
look awesome in motion moreover they are
really good parents especially the males
ostriches are also perfectly adapted to
survive in this arid environment you'll
be able to learn even more about other
amazing Birds of South Africa in our new
series of wildlife documentaries coming
soon
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
