a brand new city to call Home Berlin has
been a big change for Amit and yogita
kamlapur there are among some 10,000
Indians in the last year alone who've
moved to Berlin it's a chance to make
new friends from familiar places they
may come from all over India but are
bound by a shared culture and memories
and a need to support each other that's
the beauty of this place that everyone
comes together but not as you know
different communities but as one
Community we follow Amit on his journey
to make Berlin
[Music]
home the slower pace of life that's the
first thing Amit kamlapur noticed in
Berlin life in the German capital is a
far cry from his bustling hometown of
Pune in India back home Amit felt like
he was always on high alert always in a
race to an unknown Finish Line but here
he gets to
breathe it's quite rewarding you can uh
focus on your on self be it health be it
learning it's a historic city um by by
all means and it's great to be here meet
meeting people here the experiences how
Berlin has changed now are a part of it
so it's a yeah a great feeling for us
rituals are becoming important to Amit
too he never performed this morning
prayer or Puja back in India it was
always his mother's task now in Berlin
he finds comfort in this Hindu
ceremony as does his wife
yoga it's always a great start uh for
the day and just puts you probably in
the right mood right right track for the
day finding the right place for this
piece of home even played a part in
their house
hunt we visited a lot of Apartments of
course Berlin is a difficult Place
difficult City to get an apartment in
But whichever apartments that we visited
the first thought used to be that okay
where where is the place for our ritual
for our
Puja homecooked Indian meals are a
comfort too a lentil pancake here a
special nutty Hala for dessert there it
makes amit's first time living away from
his parents a bit easier turned out
really well I don't think I'll be able
to study after
this but the move to Germany has also
been a new chapter for their
relationship their first independent
home to
themselves we knew each other before we
got married but you know when you live
all by yourselves you are trying to
battle the daily struggles right from
you know which cupboard should we choose
how should we manage the finances it's
an allog together new um way of
understanding your partner in a
different way yeah I think uh the bond
between us has kind of like grown
stronger and deeper that way so that's
what Berlin did to us I would say in in
a sense Amit a data analyst and yoga a
product manager are amongst a surge of
Indians who have moved to Berlin
recently an estimated 10,000 have
arrived in the last year alone some are
students many like Amit and yogita are
young
professionals Germany is in the process
of easing requirements for work visas to
draw Talent from countries like India it
remains a popular choice for those
looking to immigrate despite the
challenge of the
language we have Mana we have man the
way they speak the way we pronounce it
is quite different and then therefore it
is we say ah we couldn't understand
anything and that's where we really uh
struggle in the listening part right
yeah both Amit and yoga took up studying
German in their universities back home
in India years later it made their move
less
daunting Amit liked how the language
sounded but that wasn't Germany's only
draw Germany is uh something a little uh
close to us my my father he studied
mechanical engineering so he always had
this in his mind that okay German
engineering German working culture so
that kind of also built up the whole uh
narrative for us that okay maybe we can
try
Germany yog Echoes amit's feelings about
a better work life balance here that's
how you learn right we're always in
India you know on our toes so there's
always something where there's some sort
of Silent race that we are always
running and I think uh the here in
Berlin or in maybe in Germany outside uh
the two of us we we learned to set sit
back and you know relax for a while it's
it's okay to take a break breaks
Outdoors are of course getting a bit
harder to take one thing we find a bit
still difficult is the weather so even
even right now it's a little cold for us
fortunately the couple have found warm
this evening they visit their new friend
the
gamber hello he moved to Berlin 5 years
ago everyone here heals from their home
state of
Maharashtra they share a common language
food and festivals so you're coming for
that Diwali program yes yes yes I I
heard there are a lot of programs there
are going to be like six six or eight
Diwali celebrations
in cooking in eating familiar Foods
together plays a big part here the
friends prepare some vas a popular
Indian snack made of potatoes luckily
Indian groceries are easily
available it allows for a taste of
home we knew how it is to be in the new
city new place and you know and when we
see someone uh you know from our our
area our country and you know getting
connected just to be there for them it's
a great great feeling and kind of um
reassuring for us that we are now part
of this big community and that's why we
feel at home some of the people here
moved to Berlin three decades ago these
connections are a handy way to learn the
ropes from dealing with German
bureaucracy to finding each other new
apartments for amth the gamber and his
wife dsha now feel like family and
offering that comfort to the couple is
important for the
hosts I always think when my daughters
grow up and they go some in some other
country for education or jobs or
anything uh if they feel lonely it will
be really bad so that is my motivation
to always connect to new people and make
them feel that comfortable so yeah that
so yog hasn't been home since their move
she says her and amit's families are
very grateful to this New Berlin family
you would never visit in the last one
and a half year I think we are giving
them too much love that they do
not their parents started cursing us
now yet they don't want to isolate
themselves we don't want to live here uh
in ghettos yeah because that's that's
not uh why you you come to a new country
you come to a new country uh to explore
to uh integrate to learn their culture
or maybe also impart some of yours and
impart ing Indian culture is a key part
of the intention behind the Shri Ganesha
Hindu temple in
Berlin this is the entrance of the
temple which will called as a
rajagopuram it has been started in 2009
on the the temple has been a pet project
for wiat and Krishna morti a member of
its executive committee he explains the
unique details of the structure with the
passion the Hindu gods on the facade the
way Temple Artisans flow in from India
worked for years to carve every detail
right here but it's also caused delays
that is a reason we are waiting because
in the cold country's time the Indian
workers cannot work the Indian workers
working with with a bare hands so that
they're telling this cool too cold for
us another reason for delays is the
financing of the project it relies
entirely on donations only in the past
limited funds have held up Construction
now in its 14th
year will be but with the surge of new
arrivals and a growing demand for a
place for worship and
rituals the finish line is finally in
sight getting the donations the Indian
Community before 20 years it was very
less now it has been increased double
and double so we are now in the better
position to get the uh donations to
complete the
temple it's the finishing touches now
the floor heating for the cold winter
and the final deities will be brought in
from India by SE Krishna morti says the
inauguration is planned for next summer
have you heard the song but already the
grounds of the temple are a place of
togetherness hundreds gather on a cold
November evening to celebrate Diwali the
Hindu festival of
lights Amit joins in as well with his
wife yogita Al ready on her way to India
for their first visit home the temple is
a place to celebrate the festival with
the community
instead and this is already a familiar
place for Amit every month he attends
prayer Gatherings
[Music]
here he says it gives him comfort and
confidence to be here
Namaste Namaste very much wish you a
very happy diali happy Diwali sir
happy happy that Indian community grows
up of course and it's always warm to be
here it feels very homely very close to
our home our
country organizers say everyone should
feel at home here even if they are a
curious passer by that's why entrance
costs for these events are kept low says
Krishna morti everybody's welcome
because our Temple is open for everyone
not only for the
Hindus over 25,000 people of Indian
origin now live in
[Music]
Berlin there are 10 times as many spread
across
Germany sharing their culture is
important for
[Music]
them that's the beauty of this place
that everyone comes together but not as
you know different communities but as
one community and that's what uh I've
always loved about back in India and
here also so that really kind of makes
me feel that okay there is hardly any
differ Diwali is the most important
Festival in the Hindu calendar and this
is amit's second Diwali away from
[Music]
home he's excited about being on his way
to India soon for his first visit since
his
[Music]
move it's a trip he has waited for for a
long
time but it's been a much easier wait
than he'd
[Music]
expected
