[Music]
handcuffs prison clothes a rough tone
these aren't convicted prisoners but
children but why are they in jail if
they didn't commit a crime
Dinka where to find out we head to
Chester South Carolina
it's Friday just before 6 o'clock in the
morning these kids will spend their
weekend in jail even though they didn't
do anything wrong
among them katrell he's just 8 years old
6 o'clock sharp is the start of the
weekend experience
those responsible for it their own
parents Cottrell's mother Deandra has
voluntarily sent her son here for
getting bad grades the parents pay $75
to treat their children as real criminal
offenders we are shocked by the harsh
treatment Courtney also finds it
difficult to see her 14 year old son
NOLA like this but she's afraid that
he'll come off the rails she sees this
weekend as a last resort
[Music]
as the way he used it was a weekend in
prison as an extreme educational measure
time to say goodbye to their parents
Noah and the rest aren't staying here
any longer with flashing blue lights and
sirens they head to the prison the goal
of the offices is to push the children
physically and mentally to their limits
for the next two days these blue walls
will be the home to NOLA and the others
[Applause]
[Music]
deputy Boyd is taking part in this
program for the first time how does he
find the harsh treatment of the kids so
you just gotta be mindful and they are
children but they got to change their
life and now so when they do get of age
they have a better path some of the kids
are actually in real trouble
Noah's mother thinks her son is hanging
out with gang members but is this kind
of deterrence the right way the children
should learn what prison life feels like
and everything that goes with it contact
with the outside world and their parents
is only possible through a thick glass
panel and in the middle of the
conversation the officer interrupts them
unannounced
[Music]
Courtney is visibly shocked but that's
exactly what the officers want to
achieve I see my mom my dad my pull-up
my grandmother and I can't touch them
because here's somebody behind me
screaming as the time comes for the
parents to go home the kids can take a
breather can Cottrell even understand
what's happening here
because
and this one moment Noah looks exhausted
how do the offices justify the extreme
handling the children like toys so what
would you prefer you prefer for us to be
hard on them here to keep people coming
in here I'll be out on the street and
learn Street lessons those harsh lessons
and end up in here which one is better
extreme deterrence this program has been
around since 2012 an important part of
this is meeting real inmates but before
that happens
katrell and the others have to spend
their first night in a Cell
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
the next day it also starts with a drill
but the tone changes a bit deputy Boyd
and the other guards call it the
building phase they try to talk some
sense to the kids
[Applause]
you will gang member or just rebellious
a profile for the program doesn't exist
the decision to send their children to
prison lies solely with their parents
before NOLA and the others meet real
inmates it's time to go to the nearby
city park social work time on the way
over we drive through Chester drugs and
gangs are a big problem here and we had
a 14-yard about three weeks ago he
killed
later lieutenant Neil is a co-founder of
the program and the Chester native but
his connection is even deeper with the
kids in the reason why my heart is in
this program is because I once was at
risk use I was actually a bad I did the
gang banging that's how we take so much
pride to the problem that we're doing
because we all once were there the
police voluntarily sacrificed their
weekend once a month they're not paid
but it's worth it
deputy Graham even took part in a
similar program there's a teenager
and that's how we're able to relate to
the kids that's how we're able to relate
to a whole lot of stuff on the street
that we deal with because we've been
there we've done that we know what's
going on but they don't realize that the
program could also harm some they're
convinced of the program's success out
of around 750 children seven had serious
problems with the law afterwards back in
prison
we also notice a change the mood is more
relaxed
then it's time for the children to be
left with the real inmates some of them
are even in for murder the ugly truth
[Music]
I'm known as big dream to become a
professional football player
go to college please oh by the way Louis
teacher what have you liked me
we've been treating all things not they
could even write it at all you can do
the street is not the life you want
Amelia
[Music]
the meeting leaves its mark on the boys
[Music]
pertaining to a little boy that I were
to Elaine
J the whole ed to
the last task for the kids is to write a
letter to their parents including you
along with a list of
and to do
encouragement is also part of the
weekend
[Music]
as the children write their letters
deputy board and the others make some
time for them they share above all their
personal experiences as a Mimi
people-powered saying EPP you owe it you
got me to see a different map
Nola's conclusion to the weekend the
kids are almost done
[Music]
Sunday morning 6 o'clock
Cortney than the other parents come to
pick up their children you can sense the
tension did Noah learn anything from
this weekend
you did it on the fire
I am sorry for
the parents are relieved and so are the
children is that just because the
weekend is over
a weekend in jail for an eight-year-old
is that really necessary from the
community a different intricacies I was
linear accurately have done different
things before it sold its basically
changing Deandra seems reflexive
Kourtney seems relieved
the method is questionable but at least
the policeman really seemed to care
about the children
and for them to a long weekend comes to
an end
[Music]
