after I came back I asked myself why
Messiah the chief of Special Ops
selected to travel to the South Pole at
that time to do a job that any number of
others could have been and I wondered if
it could have been because of one of my
routine duties if I had been in
Washington would have been to arrange
for additional security in Texas so I
decided to check it out and sure enough
I found out that someone had told them
112 military intelligence group in 4th
army headquarters at Fort Sam Houston to
stand down that day over the protests of
the unit commander Colonel why I believe
it's mysterious is significant because
it is standard operating procedure
especially in a knowing los talas it
even down to something of the Secret
Service but even if we had not allowed
the double-talk to be removed from the
limousine we would have placed at least
100 to 200 agents on the sidewalk
without question when only a UN
Ambassador Adlai Stevenson stood on him
it already been several attempts under
gauls life in France we would have
arrived days ahead of time to study the
route checked all the dirt
wide open empty windows overlooking
daily never we'd have had our own Smith
was covering the area the minitor
Wendell it up they'd have been on the
radio we've been watching the crowd and
he just rolled up newspaper Oscoda where
I never would have let a man
along the way never would have allowed
that limousine to slow too
much less take that unusual curve at
Houston at helm you would have felt an
army presence in the streets that none
of this happened it was a violation of
the most basic protection codes we have
and it is the best indication of a
massive clot in Dallas who could have
best done this black ox mr. garrison
people in my business people like my
superior officer could have called
Colonel Reich and said look we have
another unit coming from so-and-so
providing security you'll stand down I
mean that day in fact there were some
individual army intelligence people in
Dallas and still trying to figure out
who would want but they weren't
protecting a client and of course Osberg
army Intel had a Harvey Lee Oswald on
file
all's house a destroyed many strange
things were happening in here Lee Harvey
Oswald had nothing to do with them we
had the entire cabinet on a trip to the
Far East we had 1/3 of a combat division
returning from Germany in the air above
the United States at the time of the
shooting at 12:34 p.m. the entire
telephone system went on in Washington
for a solid hour and on the plane back
to Washington
word was radioed from the White House
situations room to Linda Johnson that
one individual performed the
assassination that sound like a bunch of
coincidences here mr. garrison not for
one moment the cabin was out of the
country to get their perceptions out of
the way troops are in the air for
possible when I control the telephones
didn't work to get the wrong stories
from spreading if anything went wrong
with the plan nothing was left to chance
he could not be allowed to escape alive
well I never thought things were the
same after that Vietnam started for real
it was an air of I don't make believe in
the Pentagon and CA those of us who'd
been in secret ops since the beginning
knew the Warren Commission was fiction
but there was something
something deeper uglier I know allan
dulles very well i briefed him many a
time in his house but for the life of me
i still can't figure out why he was
appointed to investigate Kennedy's death
the man who had fired him Delos by the
way was general wife been affected
2064
design my commission
I never realized Kennedy was so
dangerous to the establishment was that
Warren it's a real question isn't why
the how and the who is just scenery for
the public Oswald
Rubi Cuba a mafia keeps him guessing
like some kind of parlor game prevents
him from asking the most important
question why why was Kennedy killed who
benefited who has the power to cover it
up
[Music]
