and here it is the first aircraft
they've designed and built which is more
than half 53 in fact carbon fiber and
I'm standing under one of the incredible
Wings all the way from Wales and you
think inside the journey in terms of the
story that that Wing has made you know
we've got the ribs in there we have the
spa we have the stringers it's just
stunning and of course right at the very
end the upturned wings of the eagle the
winglets to make this aircraft so
incredibly efficient
one of the best things of all for me is
that I get to be one of the very first
passengers on board the Prototype
this is one of the five a350 test planes
to be built and it's still being used by
Engineers to test the aircraft to its
limits
and where better to go than straight to
where I feel at home the cockpit Peter
Chandler is the chief test pilot at
Airbus he was the brave man who took the
very first a350 to the skies in 2014.
some impressive displays here Peter what
are you testing in that first test
flight that first test right in fact the
first two flights we were what we call
opening a flight envelope so the normal
flight envelope that's the from the low
speed to the high speed and from low
altitude up to high altitude just
checking the handling of the airplane so
that we could actually identify the
natural characteristics of the airplane
the element of the Wings has made the
most significant difference
I mean the design of the wing is state
of the art in terms of the aerodynamics
and the fact that we have the ability
just to very slightly extend flaps
during Cruise so it's it's basically
changing very slightly the camera of the
wing only by maybe one one or two
degrees extension at the uh flats this
is interesting because the control
column is over to well to the right here
or to the left yes if you're the captain
yes since the mid 80s with the A320
we've had these side sticks as the uh
the means of controlling the airplane
like flying with them I I find it very
comfortable and it just cleans up the
cockpit so much you've got a nice Clear
View and of course the other advantage
of having the side stick if I could just
show you is
uh it allows us to have a table which
has two two modes we have a keyboard in
there which is the interface which we
can use for for example typing requests
for weather and that's the more
important setting is that which allows
you to eat
which is a major concern for all
Airlines
for your attention
we're taxiing out to the runway now and
the pilot to Captain has changed the
curvature of the wing so he's put the
slats at the front down slightly the
flaps at the back down slightly and that
means that we can take off
at a much lower ground speed than we
would without this happening and that's
because it provides greater lift at a
slower speed
so now
here we go
off we go full throttle
he needs to get to What's called the
speed of rotation so that he can pull
back on the stick the wings will lift us
into the air it's going to be beautiful
a350
Welsh videos
[Music]
so quiet again I'm sitting right next to
the engine and up we go how beautiful
[Music]
[Music]
it's very quiet inside I've got my
decibel counter here it's showing around
about 75 76 decibels which is well if
you consider that a normal conversation
is around about 70 decibels that's not
bad but the beauty of the two engines
here in the whole configuration of the
aircraft is What's called the noise
footprint outside so you know when
you're sitting at home you live near an
airport how noisy is the aircraft when
it's taking off particularly when it's
full throttle and generally with this
aircraft it's so quiet that the noise
footprint is held within the boundary of
the Airfield which is astonishing
I'm not in the cockpit I'm in front of
what we call the flight engineer station
from that station my job is to conduct
the test so of course I'm not able to
handle the aircraft because I have no
stick I have no first levels what kind
of things would you be telling the
pilots to do so the first test we have
to do in the the first month after the
first flight is to do what we call
stalls we have to stall the aircraft
which way which means that we have to
bring the aircraft to a given point
where it does not try anymore okay
there's a lot of people when they hear
stall they think their engine in their
car stalling it's nothing to do with the
engines this is all to do with the winds
exactly yes
[Music]
finding the aerodynamic stalling point
is one of the most important safety
characteristics of any aircraft
it's something every pilot has to learn
to recover from but thankfully Stefan
isn't going to be doing it today
setting the vors and yeah
much more difficult yes absolutely do
you really like flying This Plane oh yes
it's a very beautiful plane and it
handles very well so all the pilots are
delighted to Fighters
this is where my story ends it's been an
experience full of surprises and
unexpected discoveries but my full
appreciation of how much goes into
building an aircraft has only just begun
I'm back in Broughton and sadly the time
has come for me to book my own takeoff
slot and fly off home
this Airfield has been at The Cutting
Edge of Aeronautical Engineering for 75
years and it had a golden age back in
the 1940s but it seems to me as though
it's now within a new golden era it
really is at the Forefront of aircraft
design on a global scale and it's
fantastic because it's where I grew up
in flintshire in North Wales
thank you
thank you
