hello everyone and welcome back to the
fluctus channel
military Pilots are not born but made
the reason I wanted to become a pilot as
corny as it may be was I watched Top Gun
when I was five years old and we were
saying yep that's what I want to do
and preparing the average recruit to fly
some of the most advanced aircraft in
the world is no simple process
recruiting Air Force pilots is a lengthy
detailed process that can vary depending
upon a specific program and requirements
those who apply must meet a battery of
requirements even before they take the
Air Force officer qualifying test or
afoqt
if they pass they will enter the officer
training school or Air Force Academy
foreign
[Music]
all of this happens before they even
apply for pilot training
[Music]
a highly specialized process that can
take several years to complete
[Music]
since aspiring Air Force pilots do not
necessarily have practical flight
knowledge they need to learn theory in a
classroom before they touch a plane a
little knob on the right and that's
where you guys are going to set the
altimeter setting really important that
you guys understand what altitude are
actually at they're both we're looking
both the U.S Air Force has embraced
numerous classroom Concepts over the
years
but the ptn or Pilot training next
program is one of the newest and most
advanced
[Music]
launched in 2018 ptn is intended to
enhance and accelerate the training of
new pilots
I leveraging advancements in virtual
reality augmented reality artificial
intelligence and other Cutting Edge
Technologies
foreign
hopes to mitigate some of the challenges
traditional pilot training programs face
such as the high cost limited
availability of training aircraft and of
course long education times
with its Advanced VR powered simulators
the ptn can provide realistic and
immersive training experiences that
enhance comprehension while reducing the
need for actual flight hours
Flight Training Air Force pilots will
generally move on to Advanced Training
which focuses on specific types of
aircraft ISS Solo in the back
they can also join programs or
initiatives set to train them on new
aircraft like the F-35 lightning II
foreign
[Music]
Pilots are required to put in a certain
number of flight hours to become
certified on an aircraft
they still spend the majority of their
time in the classroom
[Music]
flight is a science after all and these
new pilots not only need to understand
the physics of their job but also boast
an extensive knowledge of the aircraft
they are flying
um
student Pilots will almost always
complete their first flight in a new
aircraft with an instructor
[Applause]
however in the case of one-seater
aircraft like the F-35 pilots and
instructors will generally go up in
separate aircraft during the First
Flight Training
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
B core students conducted their first
training sortie over Luke Air Force Base
in Arizona
[Applause]
while exciting for everyone concerned
it's important to note that these Pilots
have studied Theory and engaged with
simulators for weeks or months
beforehand
this affords them a lot of confidence
when flying the real thing for the first
time
[Music]
Pilots are trained to use various skills
tactics and strategies to engage and
defeat enemy aircraft at close range
[Music]
when the goal is to operate combat
aircraft in offensive and defensive
scenarios Pilots will need to undergo
extensive in-flight weapons and tactics
training on top of basic Flight Training
[Music]
of the most important of these is
dogfight training
[Music]
the term dogfight refers to Aerial
combat in which two or more aircraft are
engaged
[Music]
during dogfight training Pilots will
learn to execute basic and advanced
combat maneuvers
learn about spatial awareness and energy
management and work with countermeasures
such as chaff flares and electronic
interference
most modern Fighters are designed for
multi-purpose Mission capabilities
this means they will not only engage
enemy aircraft
but also provide much needed support by
attacking enemy positions on the ground
this can be accomplished with a number
of techniques including bomb dropping
firing Rockets or missiles
or executing what's known as a strafing
run
this is where the aircraft flies low and
fast over a Target while firing weapons
such as machine guns or cannons
given the generally large caliber of
modern aircraft guns these attacks can
be devastating for troops on the ground
[Music]
while somewhat routine another maneuver
that requires extensive training is
simple aerial refueling
[Music]
this is where Fighters or other aircraft
engage with a tanker plane in mid-air so
that they can refuel without having to
land
[Music]
during aerial refueling the tanker
aircraft extends a refueling boom or
probe and drobe system
the receiving aircraft then matches the
speed connects to the apparatus and
receives the required amount of fuel
foreign
this operation involves some risks
mainly due to its sheer complexity
however most of these are based on human
errors technical malfunctions or adverse
weather conditions
[Music]
with the proper training and practice
aerial refueling is exceptionally safe
[Music]
easily the most significant change in
military Flight Training has been the
invention of virtual reality and the
Advent of the advanced flight simulator
[Music]
for instance rather than showing a
series of pixels and shapes newer VR
simulators can replicate realistic
virtual environments that closely
replicate real world scenarios
[Music]
these Technologies can also recreate
various weather conditions terrain
features and even complex combat
situations allowing Pilots to practice
in a safe yet immersive environment
foreign
[Music]
flight simulators and VR training also
allow militaries worldwide to mitigate
both risk and costs
trainees can practice emergency
procedures flight Maneuvers and tactical
operations without the potential of
danger of accidents equipment damage or
injury
[Music]
there is no need for actual aircraft
there is no costly fuel consumption or
ground crew hours to consider it's
important to note that simulators cannot
wholly replace actual flying
such technologies will likely always be
used in conjunction with live training
exercises you're empty too
Pilots not only need to prepare their
minds to fly aircraft but their bodies
as well
foreign
[Music]
humans are subjected to extreme forces
that can sometimes result in unforeseen
medical reactions
[Music]
one of the oldest and most reliable ways
to prepare pilots and Navigators for
flight is to use a centrifuge
centrifuges are used to simulate High
gravitational forces commonly known as
g-forces
yeah they had the groundbreaking
ceremony there
over the years repeated exposure to high
g-forces have been shown to cause loss
of consciousness when not adequately
managed
therefore the primary objective of
centrifuge training is to expose Pilots
to high g-forces in a safe controllable
environment
this helps them understand the
sensations and develop techniques to
mitigate the associated physiological
effects
another inescapable fact of flight is
exposure to high altitudes as Pilots
climb higher they enter a space where
the air has much less oxygen
[Music]
hypoxia training Chambers also known as
altitude Chambers are specialized
facilities where such training is
performed
[Music]
Chambers are designed to simulate high
altitude conditions by reducing the
atmospheric pressure and related oxygen
content
[Music]
hypoxia training Chambers can simulate
altitudes of up to 25 000 feet or higher
in many cases the Air Force will
actually Force the trainees to
experience full hypoxia or low blood
oxygen so that they can be more familiar
with its effects
play doctor okay
oh your arms up as a tea
and that same quick is the breaststroke
perhaps one of the most extreme and
grueling tests trainee Pilots will be
subjected to is water survival training
can be performed in specialized pools or
in the open water
[Music]
either way the goal is to accurately
simulate all the things that might
happen in the event of a water
evacuation
for instance jet skis will drag Pilots
to simulate being pulled around in the
Water by an open parachute
it will also be asked to swim in Flight
suits while carrying Survival equipment
while this sort of training may seem
excessive it goes to show just how
committed the Air Force is to Preparing
their pilots for anything they might
encounter
that's the end of this video I hope you
enjoyed it make sure to subscribe to
this channel so you don't miss any of
our new content see you next time
foreign
[Music]
