if you are tired of cold weather and
busy city life and would like to
experience warm tropical weather white
sandy beaches scuba diving snorkeling
deep-sea adventure or you would like to
explore history archaeology and learn
about a new culture while maybe none of
these but you would like to spend your
vacation in a paradise like settings
then Belize is your dream destination
assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullah welcome
to Belize
Belize is a small country in Central
America in the north is connected with
Mexico in the west and south is
Guatemala Honduras is just a short
distance away but has a common border
through the ocean on the east side is
connected with Caribbean ocean and thus
the open world Belize is a very small
country with about 350,000 inhabitants
most of its inhabitants live in the
cities like Belize City chorus all
orange walk Belmopan Punta Gorda Dan
Gregor and placencia most of the people
speak English however Spanish is widely
understood but there is another thing
that people speak which is called Creole
Creole is a kind of broken English which
you might be able to understand a part
of if you pay attention however when the
people talk to each other you would not
be able to understand anything
people are from the descendants of the
African slaves who were brought here a
few centuries ago and thus have been
settled in this land however there are a
people a lot of people from the other
places like Honduras and Guatemala and
Mexico and other countries who are
living in peace and harmony despite
their differences of race and religion
in general the least is a peaceful place
where people understand each other
being a small place almost everybody
knows everybody but that does not mean
that there are no dangerous areas one
needs to be careful when he comes here
in which area he goes and in which areas
to a wide but at the same time people of
Belize are very friendly because of that
government is developing this country as
a huge tourist attraction a number of
cruise ships come here every day and
every year and that provides the local
people employment opportunities people
make handicrafts at home sell them in
the tourist village and other troost
attractions which provides them means of
earning
the history of Belize dates back
thousands of years
several major archaeological sites
including cahal pech Caracol lamanai
lubaantun Alton ha
and Shannon tonic reflect the advanced
civilization and much denser population
of that period the Maya civilization
emerged at least three millennia ago in
the lowland area of the Yucatan
Peninsula and the highlands to the south
in what is now southeastern Mexico
Guatemala Western Honduras and Belize
many aspects of the culture persist in
the area despite nearly 500 years of
European domination believes both
important sites of the earliest Maya
settlements majestic loins of the
classic period and examples of the late
post Classic ceremonial construction the
first recorded European settlement was
established by shipwrecked English
seamen in 1638 over the next hundred and
50 years more English settlements were
established Belize was termed the colony
of British Honduras in 1840 it became a
crown colony in 1862 the official name
of the territory was changed from
British Honduras to Belize in June 1973
and full independence was granted on
September 21st 1981
Vineet is also known for this extreme
biodiversity and distinctive ecosystems
on the coast is a swampy coastal plain
with mangrove swamps in the south and
interior there are hills and low
mountains most of country is undeveloped
and is forested with hardwood
velocity is the largest city in Belize
its population is about 70,000
inhabitants until 1961 Belize City used
to be the capital of beliefs however
Belize City lies in direct path of
hurricanes in 1961 the city was
flattened with the hurricane thus it was
decided to move the capital inland and
Belmopan which is about 50 miles to the
west became the capital of Belize
currently the population of Belmopan is
only about 14,000 most of the people
live in Belize City tourists who come to
visit Belize do not stay in Belize City
mostly most of them like to go to the
islands like Key Cocker and San Pedro
that has beautiful sandy beaches
providing them with a lot of
opportunities to take part in the water
sports
Belize is blessed with the second
largest Barrier Reef in the world that
provides a lot of opportunities for you
to see the wildlife in this in the ocean
and different kind of fish live here it
provides you a lot of opportunities to
take part in the ocean sports if you are
interested in that police used to be a
closed country and not many people used
to come here however government started
changing the rules and regulations
opening up the country for the
foreigners and a lot of tourists started
coming here that created a lot of
opportunities for the people of Belize
however these opportunities are merely
not enough education level is not very
high a lot of people a lot of youngsters
drop out of school in very early age and
they fall through the cracks and they do
not know what to do so you will see a
lot of youngsters roaming around walking
in the streets doing nothing that's
creating a sense of loneliness in them
government is taking certain actions to
correct the situation however the
resources are not enough for these
people and they do not know what to do
with themselves so they are always
looking for some opportunity and that
also takes them onto the wrong path just
because of that Belize City is
clearly divided into two paths one is
the northern Belize and one is the
certain beliefs in the northern police
you will mostly find the people who are
well-off and they are living on their
own but in the southern Belize you will
find a lot of people who do not have
much opportunities or say no
opportunities at all and they do not
even have the place to sleep or they do
not even have anything to eat when
you're walking around if you ask
somebody have you had lunch or dinner
very calmly sometime they would tell you
no I didn't have anything to eat
there are many islands in the coastal
boundary of Belize many of them are
privately owned however some are open to
the public some are large enough to
sustain a good-sized City for example
Amburg is key in order to go to the
island you will need to get on a water
taxi for a 45 minutes ride to keikaku or
75 minutes ride to san pedro san pedro
is the city of 14,000 friendly people
and one of the major tourist attractions
in Belize City serves as a hub for
marine activities like snorkeling scuba
diving and day-long excursions to Blue
Hole
what do you guys do here well we provide
snorkeling excursions and uh which is a
Barrier Reef snorkel and an island
getaway I'm one of the part owners for
the island which is called starfish
island and we deal directly with the
cruise lines we have contracts with all
major cruise lines in Belize City and we
pick the guess up from the cruise ship
and take them to the Barrier Reef to
snorkel they snore for an hour and then
we take them to the island where they
have food drinks beach chairs to relax
music I see those tools are those the
scuba diving suits so those are off
snorkeling vests they're called BCS
buoyancy compensators they're all
required to use one and inflated you
know with just your breath just so that
when you're in the water you have
floatation and in case of emergency or
you need help you know there's something
to keep you afloat before you know one
of our guides or so could get to you too
so I don't know swimming and I you know
so what kind of fitness level do I need
can I go in the water with this o2
snorkel it requires a little bit of
physical strength and endurance it's not
a it's not an easy thing to do
of course if you do it a few times you
become a professional and then it
becomes easy then we work with you yeah
basically what it is is once you get
into what is to make yourself
comfortable
make yourself relaxed and realize hey
this is easy for me to do it I need just
need to get your breathing right we're
all accustomed to breathing through a
node but when you put the mask and a
stroke in your mouth then you have to
breathe through your your mouth because
if you try to breathe through your nose
then the same carbon monoxide that
you're extracting will just get the mask
all fogged up
so you need to get used to snorkeling
and breathing through your mouth so what
kind of fish and marine life do you see
basically out there there's a like
lobsters
eels lots of colorful fish most of the
fish that we have in Belize occasional
turtle lots of stingrays and sharks
occasionally you'll see a nurse shark
which is harmless we've never seen any
really dangerous shark but lots of
colorful fish lots of beautiful corals
and I mean we're proud to say that we
have the second largest Barrier Reef and
it's very colorful is still in prestige
shape so we try to keep it that way
and before we snorkel we always give a
briefing to our guests to you know to
ensure that they are aware and they're
educated enough to know that we're not
going to destroy the corals and make
sure we keep it the same way we we found
it it is expensive well it all goes
through the Pooh's lines I would say
it's it's cheap but it's not expensive
either if you want an experience and an
adventure you know to take full benefit
of what beneath has to offer around its
Barrier Reef one could go for scuba
diving windsurfing snorkeling and many
other marine activities however
snorkeling is something that an average
person can do easily even without any
knowledge of swimming toward course
takes you to the Barrier Reef that you
will be able to swim with the sharks
stingrays
turtles and many other types of fish in
their natural habitat
you
beside these islands are the truest
reflections our cave tubing inland blue
hole belize zoo and jungle tracks
there are several resorts set up all the
trois vall√©es that provide comfortable
living in the exotic settings to provide
you the ultimate jungle experience you
enjoy a good night's sleep in a mosquito
free environment and singing birds wake
you up in the morning some species of
villages flora and fauna include the
black orchard the mahogany tree the two
cones and tapers besides the magical
islands and botanical garden resorts
Belize is blessed with the Maya
Mountains that peak at almost 5000 feet
a drive through these mountains on the
southern highway takes you to the cities
of Hopkins Dan Riga placencia and Punta
Gorda Hopkins is a small coastal town
with friendly people and beautiful
beaches pasensya is situated at the end
of a long half-mile white strip that
connects it with the mainland Belize
licencias becoming a new tourist
destination with all the amenities of
Western world white sandy beaches and
nice restaurants placencia is full of
beautiful bungalows and gated
communities that are mostly owned by
experts from North America and Europe a
blending of cultures has resulted in one
of the happiest and most peaceful
countries in the region
Belize is blessed with a lot of marine
resources with the second largest
Barrier Reef in the world a lot of fish
and shrimps are harvested along the
Belizean coast
these are processed and exported to
other countries as well but the biggest
income and the employment that comes
with the ocean is the arrival of the
cruise ships almost every day a cruise
ship docks along the coast of Belize and
all those tourists flock to the city of
Belize with the taxi drivers are able to
make their income by taking the tourists
to visit the Mayan ruins and other
inland activities a lot of people who
make the handicrafts are able to sell
their handicrafts in the tourist village
and a lot of other employment
opportunities are connected with this
kind of truism other than the tourism
and marine resources agriculture is
another major aspect in the Belizean
economy Belize produces rice corn
sugarcane and a lot of other fruits that
are sold fresh here and also exported in
the western part of the LEAs oil is also
extracted
however it's merely not enough for the
Belize and a lot of oil is also imported
from the other countries one of the
nicest things about Belize is the
weather with an average yearly
temperature of 84 Fahrenheit or 29
degrees Celsius I saw this warm yet
comfortable coastal sea breezes as well
as the jungle and the rainforests keep
you cool even in the hottest summer
months while winters can be cool but
never very cold Belize is dry season is
between February and May and has
significantly lower rainfall than the
rest of the year when it does rain it is
usually a mile short first June for
December is wet season when parts of the
country receive up to 150 inches of rain
Belize also has a hurricane season and
while statistically Belize does not
attract any major direct hits it does
get its share of severe tropical weather
with high winds and rain in Belize
traditions and customs are varied and
represent more than a diverse cultures
for generations the people of Belize
have the
created a cultural commitment to
preserve the country's unique charms
whether you are an adventurer traveler
part of a family trip or in the country
for a relaxing Beach vacation every day
will be a new experience for you and
belizean people and culture will make
you feel welcomed and comfortable we
hope you enjoyed this short documentary
and believes will be part of your next
vacation plans assalamu alaikum
warahmatullahi wabarakatuh
you
