a lot of times I would show up at
tournament bring something really silly
and unorthodox and go up again you know
the best players in the world with the
most serious decks at the best decks and
I find a way to win because I'm
anticipating that because obviously you
guys are sure to win if you know what
they're gonna do you can kind of prepare
a secret trick to Surprise them and
catch them off guard he's picking it up
he's feeling it out oh look at it
toast with this banana grid oh wow
every time I do that did you always get
a huge kick out of this yeah toast is
showing us that can be different and
good you can have fun and win because of
this reputation as the game breaker
whenever like a small of you're without
access to you know YouTube or whatever
it was just message means that hey toast
I think I discovered something crazy can
you test it out the other half of the
times cuz I just have so much experience
by now testing these hearthstone bugs
and because of my patents or your
programmer you can kind of see the lines
where something's gonna break
like if something reacted a really
strange manner you can kind of connected
dodges like alright if I applied this
card see this other card based on this
rejection something's gonna mess up here
because of the way it's coded so I got
banned from playing hearthstone by
Blizzard for three days because I used
an exploit to get some free wins in a
competitive game like hearthstone so
what would happen is my opponent will
start to game out such game now with
these load trick where I disconnect him
from the game and by the time he
connects I've already won
oh my god it's a monster half mirage
color have reluctant what have I created
Wow it was uh it was a really dirty
exploit I didn't think it was gonna look
like that when someone told me about it
it was like the bug is like oh then test
this bug out and when it work I'm like
oh pretty sure this isn't supposed to be
allowed so I did it a few more times on
screen and obviously that's not in Fair
spirit and Blizzard kind of message me
he's like hey I know your things to test
out these bugs to test out these
exploits but you can't have you cheating
games publicly in front of 10,000
viewers so they handed me suspension
from the game so for quest mage people
knew the combo the interaction of you
know infinite fireballs the opponent's
face but it's hard to play when you
about playing aggro decks there was this
play called ray who made a very
defensive style classmate deck that
played an Ungaro and going to knights up
the Frozen Throne it's like it wasn't
one of my favorite decks and just kept
playing and playing and finding until
I'm just really really good at it
because that deck you can really mess up
the second you mess up one combo on one
spell you over draw one card
you're gonna instantly lose the game so
it's a deck that's really fun but
extremely punishing if you mess up on
anything but once you achieve that
combos like well I'm gonna I'm gonna
show you temple rogue right now is that
insane position all right oh my god yes
yes then we're like you know what
let's play it again Prince Kalos a
particular seems to be making the his
plane to every deck pyro warrior I've
seen run telesat I've seen zoo warlock
I've seen aggressive thousands in temple
robe Telus app seems to be making a
splash in everything you know you've run
calluses and run patches and run the
captain that comes out as a charging
three three for free so I go that seems
to be having some popularity but it's
not like the patch I go decks like a
high warrior where I'm gonna hit you in
the face until you're dead or token
druid was like I'm gonna have an insane
4x2 it's like Oh 1.2.3.4 drop by drop
their most overpowered ultimate
infestation
I don't it's hard to say it's a really
powerful card but ten drops is supposed
to be how big one people have been
talking about it ice block it's not fun
to play against ice boss
I mean I played quest mage so I'm using
like two ice blocks and I'm trying to
get as much ice box that I can from
extra you know sources but man it's
tilting he's at one health and you're
doing everything you can you can play
the biggest minion you can draw so much
cards as you want
it's like he's gonna survive a turn and
sometimes that one turn just once in the
game prince calluses has been talked
about a lot too as a card that just has
the potential to snowball game out of
control when you look at the car like
tusks are totemic which was nerved
because if you row a certain totem you
can have a 15% chance increased to win
the game and Prince Telesat is like that
when you look at the stats you know if
you drop it on to your odds of winning
just goes up at 10%
we just increase our odds by 10 percent
of winning this game and if you don't
have gone to they're still playing a
really strong day so you'll probably
have to keep an eye on tell us at do you
have to fill your entire to drop lien
around it luckily for Rose they have one
of the best turn to people power and
they run Firefly becoming ice block is
probably like my number one list of
cards to look at they obviously had to
play give them something more defensive
because almost every single image that
relies on ice block in one way or the
other the pattern right now there seems
to be a nerve every two months I think
this time it was like with them one
month because it was just so out of hand
and I gotta commend Blizzard for that
one they usually like to waste like
quest rogue seems strong but let's wait
you know two months or three months but
this is the one time they're like one
month is like okay this is out of hand
we got change it the nerve to innervate
the big one
cuz innovative was a card that you can
plan around you know when you play it
gets a priest you know what they're
gonna do pulls your madness get over
dance chat about pain dragon fire potion
but with an invading a droids arsenal is
like alright its turn to you can wrath a
wild girls but your opponent's like oh
just kidding I'm gonna innovate innovate
hiya black pine here's a big minion that
you have to kill and you have no mana to
do so
so without innovate to worry about every
time I play games to do it I know why I
can SPECT and it feels fair I can plan
my plays out having fun is more
important than winning obviously if you
can have fun and when it's great but
it's not always about playing the best
things not always using the best fat
if you want do something crazy and just
pull it off and add this huge moment of
satisfaction it's okay to lose nine
games to have the perfect combination of
cars to create this really cool thing
make sure to LIKE comment and subscribe
for more eSports content
