this is the world we live in if we
weren't surrounded by it every day if we
didn't take it for granted
we'd be dumbstruck by its very intricacy
and brilliance
this is an ordinary familiar wooden
pencil you might think a pencil is
simple chances are you've been using one
since before you could even read or
write but just because it's familiar
doesn't mean it's simple in fact it's
complicated elaborate beautiful elegant
it's very existence is too improbable
for any one person to truly comprehend
these are the basic materials that go
into a pencil graphite cedar metal and
rubber but if you had all the elements
of a pencil right in front of you could
you make a pencil it's not as easy as
you might think in fact no single person
on the face of the earth could do it
without the help of countless others and
this is the key to understanding the
world
a pencil just like you and me is the end
result of a vast and intricate family
tree a symphony of human activity that
spans the globe through their work and
knowledge a vast number of people have
had a hand in making this simple pencil
unlike your family tree this one begins
with an actual tree
the most immediate ancestor of the
pencil is a cedar tree in the Pacific
Northwest but the loggers who harvest
the timber are also its ancestors and
these men don't work alone they in turn
are assisted by the people and
industries that produce the saws rope
countless other tools that they use
these are also the ancestors of our
pencil as is the waitress at a nearby
diner who sells the loggers lunch to say
nothing for thousands of people involved
in producing that simple midday meal
across time and space the web grows
consider the roads trucks ships
communication systems and the people who
design build and maintain them all of
them are necessary to bring the lumber
to the mills and the slat factories to
process them all of them were also the
ancestors of the pencil and even with
the work of all these people so far all
we have is a stained wooden slat a naked
half of a wooden body of a pencil but
it's family tree is larger and more
extensive
the graphite is mined in China and Sri
Lanka at the pencil Factory is mixed
with clay and heat and other materials
before it's extruded dried and baked in
a kiln people from different contents
different cultures cooperate to bring
these materials together with waxes and
kilns and equipment from across the
world these two are the ancestors of the
pencil and the same is true of the
eraser with ingredients from around the
world it's the end result of a similarly
complex and exotic branch the family
tree as is the ferrule the metal band
made from material that is mined refined
and shipped from all over the world each
part of the pencil is the results of the
collaboration and cooperation of
millions of people together they form a
process that is constantly changing and
adapting a change in the availability or
cost of material from one place might
make another source more desirable and
the process changes and adapts fluidly
and there is a fact that's still more
astounding the absence of a mastermind
of anyone dictating these countless
actions which bring a pencil in being
each member of this family tree supplies
only a small amount of the necessary
know-how needed to make a pencil they do
so voluntarily not because they
necessarily want pencils or like pencils
but because by working to create them
they exchange their labor and skills for
the wages let them buy with a
what you're seeing is the market at work
the spontaneous configuration of
creative human energies of millions of
people with their various skills and
talents organizing voluntarily in
response to human necessity and desire
as if led by an invisible hand to
promote an end which was no part of the
intention every second we are live we
benefit from the products of voluntary
spontaneous cooperation this is the
modern world it's miraculous its
intricate and it gets better every day
so long as people are free to interact
with each other if we can leave the
creative energies of humankind
uninhibited there's no limit what we can
accomplish
and
you
