for me what it means to be gender-fluid
is the only word that I understand now
to describe the type of person that I am
which is basically free spirit I never
seen myself as a boy or a girl I kind of
liked it at the mermaid because the
Little Mermaid was like the only person
that I knew who had something different
below the waist but yet was really
pretty we're not in a point of history
right now that we actually fully
understand people
I kind of went through the whole thing
where I accept myself which is like okay
sex change and then I research done
there was a lot of cons with it for
example and you have to quote your body
and get surgery and you know getting
hormone which which could it's possible
they could affect your your whole
personality nude I'm I just personally I
don't believe that I you should have to
change my body or I should have to alter
or get surgery for I feel that I am this
way for a reason and I feel that I
should be able to just be myself
whatever happened to worry about getting
surgery or change so that's why gender
fluidity is the only word that I
understand to define I stay of being
that doesn't trap me into song even way
of being or on one way of thinking in
May 2015
Ireland became the first country to
legalize same-sex marriage on a national
level by popular vote on the surface it
appears that Ireland has progressed in
their acceptance of same-sex
relationships however what we understand
about gender and sex I wanted to gain a
better understanding of the various
gender identities in today's society and
speak to individuals whose biological
sex did not correlate to their gender my
journey began here at the outhouse
transgender support group in Dublin with
its facilitator Sarah Phillips through
so many different terms now to describe
different gender identities it's not
just the stereotypical gay or lesbian
anymore we've got transgender we've got
gender fluid so what do you make of the
new languages that are emerging and I
suppose even within our own community
language is constantly developing you
know young trans people are starting to
redefine the language and you know we've
lived with - binary terms man and woman
for so long I don't think it's as simple
as that
the human race is not just two
gender identities it's very
much a spectrum and I think whatever you
feel comfortable with identifying as I
think for me that's where we should be
ending up being and I think that diverse
nature of our human race is where we
should be going so how would you
describe the word transgender
transgender is an umbrella term for
people who gender identity doesn't agree
with what is necessary on their birth
certificate I've always identified as
female but we did transgender history so
then would you say that you're attracted
to males now
um well the simple answer to that is I
don't think I don't want to be rude but
I don't think I'd be asking the same
question of other people gender identity
and sexual orientation are two different
things just because you have a different
gender identity maybe to your original
birth certificate doesn't mean
necessarily that your sexual orientation
will be one way or the other it is more
about your gender identity in the sense
of your gender identity being different
to what people have identified us I
think I asked what made you choose the
names there I always had Sarah it's
always been with me maybe since
literally since that age of five I
didn't like the name and my within that
kind of class I used to tell the girls
that I played that that's what my name
once it was always it was always for
some reason in my head that's what it
was I then met a transgender woman named
Philippa who has been attending the
support group over the last 10 years she
explained how she made the transition
six years ago for Philippa this meant
legally changing her name having bodily
surgery and committing to a life of
hormones I am the person I was intended
to be basically and what was it that he
didn't like about being a man he wasn't
me I couldn't express myself properly
and anytime I tried to express
himself the way I've felt inside
beginning looks are beginning I realized
I just wasn't happy within myself I had
to I had to show the world who what was
inside and being a man certainly was not
doing that and even saying the word man
just seems so alien to me now for people
who might not have an understanding of
transgender what would you like to put
across and what would you like people to
understand try and put yourself in my
situation I know that it's not something
that I chose to be it's not a choice in
my case it's who I have to be and one of
the things as I transitioned my partner
said when I started going on hormone
treatment when I started going out more
and I started being myself she said to
me you are so much nicer now than you
where I used to be very moody I used to
be very not argumentative but I just was
depressed
whereas now that I am who I was intended
to be I'm so much happier have
compassion have understanding try and
understand what it is to be somebody
like me and how it's not going to affect
you if I choose to exhibit myself as
Philippa and believe me to find somebody
who would accept you and say it say
something kind about you and say I
understand or I'm willing to listen to
you and to listen to you explain explain
your situation that will mean so much to
the
person and what it would mean the world
to them so I think that's the way I've
put it after speaking with both Sarah
and Philippa I felt that I'd gained a
better understanding of the transgender
community
they also made me aware of the fact that
new vocabulary is constantly emerging to
describe other gender identities I then
went on to meet a group of young people
and active members of the LGBT community
I sat in with them for a chat while they
got ready to head off to the Dublin
Pride Parade
same price the only one day a year where
people just get to be themselves and
where they want to wear and do what they
want to deal without people looking at
them and saying why is he dressed like
that why you dressed like that and okay
okay this is my girlfriend
I'm and would you say that you realized
that you're gay yeah I'd say I was kind
of looking at girls since I was 16
oh we're boys and then probably 21 I
started at that yeah wait 18 is present
yeah
when were you ready um I don't know
about grouses about 14 and I only came
in last year so yeah how is that little
terrifying yeah I scared survived into
my life for like what you do it's the
best fate of the entire world best I'm
which is how hot like boyfriend's before
yeah if you work on seven yeah yeah
which I was trying to out probably had a
tree kind of serious boyfriends and I
did love them more like it wasn't a
cause in Oakland to get me just more
friendships than at the elephant yeah
how fast like don't worry asking like
kissing someone that year would you said
that you were attracted to or Mars yeah
yeah I father was like I was attracted
to girls um I thought might be buddy
flexible but then kind of the older I
got then the more I realize that I'm
just not attractive boys anymore on that
way and can didn't want them coming on
to me in clothes and stuff at that and
then it's real either mother for me
anymore
and yeah definitely gay than the speech
I broke up my voice one of four and a
half years like a Jeb
you'll literally a month or four but I
told him that was by like tables it's
relationship okay and then I can show
him six months before we actually fix
your vocal and yeah because we were best
friends
I keep fingers like 15 and 16 and he
just couldn't wrap his hand and head
around like he thought was just a phase
ever so kind of trying to make it work
and I just wouldn't
there you go and that's why he's gay
male and express my soy a very feminine
so if I wake up one morning I want to go
ing to make a crop top I'll do it I have
a cup in the morning
apartment whatever a short shorts and
they would like you know I really don't
like water people's opinion is Alberto
me and never took a dress for myself I
do what I want to do for people of a
problem with it I think that's their
issue you know I can visit me see you
wear makeup hmm yeah
would you wear time and store there's
not much and then a ball point does it
stop trying to would you call up being
feminine then well yeah I characterize
that has been very feminine and like I'm
not kind of wearing a skirt or kind of
going out and getting myself a different
name and acting like that
I'm very much too young and how I choose
expressing my story is me and the blocks
people are open to it but people kinda
don't understand a little bit like whoa
like you're addressing other girls they
want to be a girl oh yeah I want to be
me or expressed I know and maybe you
would identify as transgender no good
for is Jenna flavored I suppose would be
the expression I think what the issue
here is that which is there's two styles
in the world is a more feminine style
more masculine soil we're only
traditionally used to that feminine
style in women intrigued by Luke's
definition of gender fluidity a concept
I was unfamiliar with I decided to meet
with him again
with hopes of gaining a better
understanding of the turn and what it
means to hear so loo care do you stop
identify I identify myself first and
foremost as a human being I think my
character is more important than whether
I'm called he or she obviously were used
to man mikkel T and females being called
she but I have a male body but I feel
that my expression and my nature and my
character is at what we're traditionally
used to in females basically I don't
feel it's a simplest game straight I
think that and we are basically we are
the brain ones on a spectrum and people
like me use a very strong portion of the
feminine side of the brain which is the
right brain and and we are attracted to
the more mature opposite which is more
masculine so I'm feminine so my sexual
orientation will be attracted to a more
masculine person I'm just I think that
is not a simplest rating game amount of
woman I think it's more like like I'm a
male body person and I have a male like
my body but my nature is what we're
traditionally connect with females but
yeah I'm a male and why's that that that
nature and I think the problem is not
being trapped in the wrong body the
problem is we need to begin to recognize
that there is males with that nature
it's not that there are a woman trapped
inside of a man's body it's that they're
a male person with that nature and it
needs to be recognized and we need to
confirm it with it underneath being
aesthetic for and a clothesline through
you're saying earlier you've no
intention of ever actually having
surgery to become a female and not at
the moment no everything changes I could
and just right now very home for my body
and very comfortable and with my
everything about myself I think I was
born this born as I have for a reason I
like to be male but then I don't think I
have to changing it surgery to be myself
is that what would separate you from a
transgender person what did distinct
distinguishes me from my supposed
transgenders one yes I don't have
hormones or surgery but there's plenty
of that people out there who
don't have surgery hormones under still
a woman but I just guess I'm just happy
being me where you call me male or
female and a character is more important
than gender pronoun hey yeah yeah yeah
did you find like people stare too when
you walk into shop sir yeah I get stared
a lot and it's very hurtful because you
know I'm not any different from anyone
else I just happened to be male who you
know has an effeminate oh yeah I just
think people should just start to be
themselves a bit more and just do what
they want to do and take questions like
yeah I like sailing you know there you
go again you should get that in the
camera though there you go
that's a man like you should get a to
the camera okay the guys the guys just
said there that's a my daddy idea no if
you want to kind of get them in the car
I prefer to wear to use dollar more -
you might like I haven't made a body so
I like to wear teens that suit my figure
you often find it hard to like find
stuff that fits or even like shoes and
stuff like that oh definitely I find it
very difficult and that's why a lot of
times I design my own clothes it's kind
of the thing where you say okay it
doesn't exist but necessity is the
mother of invention so I'm gonna make it
myself
shields are very hard to find in a size
9 there's no actually she was it's a
it's a problem with the whole gender
thing again they don't care for clothes
for people like me and that's something
- sorry it as well I couldn't help but
feel a little disheartened by the
reaction of the two mentors Luke earlier
that day I wanted to learn more about
the support he receives from those
closest from and how he deals with
negative comments
so who would you've went to if you
needed support or advice well and to so
many people that gave me like supporter
is but then again not too many but the
main supporter was my mom
she was my main supporter she supported
me through the mean years and to the
lean years and she was unconditional
where support were everything so yeah my
mom was my biggest supporter and then
she passed away two months ago and she
her death was like the probably the most
traumatizing thing that ever happened to
me but um you know I just it's made me
stronger if anything it's made me
realize that life is very very short and
the people that love you unconditionally
can go like that so be be be yourself so
what can you change are you hoping for
in the future
hope for the future that so many people
are going to begin to realize that it's
not going to be the end of the world
when people start to be themselves and
people are just going to be consistent
in their love and energy and you know
people are just going to be more open
and just loveable and and you know we
begin to see a really exciting
revolution because we start to see all
these people coming out woodwork who've
never seen before coming out was
gender-fluid her or lesbian or or you
know or androgynous sir our heterosexual
with an inclination towards feminine man
it's crazy so we're going to see all
these delivery colors the spectrum
shining through I know your positive
attitude you have to have a positive
attitude because you know you have one
shot at this and if you don't enjoy it
then you don't you know you might you're
just wasting your time so we just have
fun best yeah but I just feel better
when her for anyway so who doesn't so
having looked under the surface I feel
on one level relieved that people feel
free to express themselves and that
society's acceptance of those born
outside of what we used to consider the
norm is certainly increasing
however at another level I feel a degree
of empathy with those individuals
because clearly they still feel that
society still alienates them thus I
believe that there is a need for a new
dialogue and language around the whole
subject of gender identity this is our
contribution to expanding that narrative
you
