[Music]
there is no devil the devil is the
police that's why we call them beasts
the slums of Nairobi dead bodies of
young poor men are turning up on the
streets almost every day it's an
underground war against crime the
community experts and insiders say they
are executed by the police without
charges without trial because they are
allegedly criminals one of them was
Brian this is his story
[Music]
a laQuan Paulie
num - Afra he and block big fans
mama Brio has lost her son Brian 19
years old executed while having lunch
it's been two days and it still all
feels like a terrible nightmare
Hey look a picture so much this is where
Brian was sleeping just a few days ago
the police suspected him of being a
criminal a thief but mama Breyer says he
was innocent
Hashima aqua to vita Vitalik welcome to
our opened opened upon gay and I grew
Freya noir so now Wang are too innocent
what an you are taught us you were to
working for you Brian had aspired to
become a reggae artist it's day four
after Brian's death
mama Brielle has to go to the city more
tree for his autopsy filming is
officially forbidden
the smell is pungent 20 to 50 corpses
arrived here every day almost all killed
by police
for Mom Abreu it's still all surreal
Joyce was Brian's friend and neighbor
here in her community in KY Ola is why
he was killed
Joyce says he was executed in broad
daylight along with his three friends
so we rented this way and we found that
our four boys were killed here
one was Lane here here and there's a
tree were inside I had they came to cook
lunch and they were done don't the
policeman on the one who gunned him down
can you enter the community is still
shocked about what they say was a brutal
execution by a police killer squad three
of the men died in here
the family has burned everything so that
their rooms can be empty
Begg homes joy shows us another chilling
piece of evidence the images of brian
and his dead friends broadcast on dan
dora crime-free one of the many facebook
pages that support extrajudicial
killings joy says the police themselves
post the pictures to instill fear and
label the victims as armed violent
criminals
I saw they were my friends like brothers
to me
and it hurt me a lot
here in the slum the community says the
police are slaughtering an entire
generation
that's why we always keep quiet there
are so many guys who have been killed
but you can't you can't say anything
yeah
the independent medical legal unit in
blue in Nairobi dr. Brian B changa is a
forensic expert for him cases like
Brian's are part of a larger pattern
being when Kenya is almost a death
sentence you more likely today from the
police than from the criminals the whole
scenario where there's a lot of crime
the police are trying to fight crime
that gives you a recipe for for some of
these extrajudicial killings the
executed are overwhelmingly young men
and they are poor like Brian the police
call them criminals
the police claimed the victims were
caught stealing or attacking their
offices but for dr. B Changa the corpses
tell a different story and she wants to
get the back entry wounds to the head
and she wounds to the chest
the main objective of of anyone who's
trying to shoot you in the back in the
head and the chest is not to immobilize
you it's to execute you we reached out
to the office of the Inspector General
phone interview several times we also
contacted I power the police's
independent oversight authority for an
official statement both repeatedly
denied DW requests for interviews in
person
one officer inside the system however is
willing to uncover the doings of
Nairobi's police but only anonymously he
fears he would otherwise be killed as
well he wants to be called modern cop
and says he's against extrajudicial
killings like that of Brian
extrajudicial killings happen almost
every other day everybody knows that
there are extrajudicial killings it's
impossible to give the exact figures but
modern cop guesses about ten people are
executed in nairobi slums every day that
would make it more than three thousand
five hundred police murders per year so
the procedure is as a cop you're given
an order you don't know where the order
comes from you're told hey this is
what's happening and now it's time to
shoot to kill and then you go you land
within that process if you don't get the
right guy you'll end up killing the
wrong guy and if you get the right guy
you also kill the right guy without
prosecution and nobody cares
for many police the otherwise vibrant
life in the slum is deemed worthless
outside the affected neighborhoods in
the rest of the country most killings
are not reported or downplayed crime is
rife the prisons are full and no one
remembers how the extrajudicial killing
started in the first place
modern cop explains the truth behind the
posted photos of dead corpses he says
that firearms are placed next to the
victims by the police to show they were
armed you will have to at least find a
way to place a fake pistol and retaliate
and say that the guy was also armed you
go do your thing but at the end of the
day the concept is you must make the
police look good however bad it is so
having fake guns on criminals that's
true
the police insist their victims
including Brian are all criminals and a
friend of Brian says yes they weren't
again but those times are long over they
gave up crime and even surrendered to
the police last year to conceal his
identity
we'll call him Olmos they shouldn't have
killed Brian
we had changed for real for real if
there's an investigation they should do
their investigation isn't that right
there are jails who were they built for
dead bodies our dead bodies taken to
jail al Moses but one example of a
former criminal who now lives with a
target on his back
despite pursuing a life of reform fear
and censorship mute all official counts
of extrajudicial killings local media
reports as of August 2017 that the
latest number of police executions is a
little over 100 in one year
in one year 100 people only there's
nothing like that a hundred people are
dying within three days 100 people are
dead within three days almost has lost
his friend Brian and says he knows the
police will come for him next I'm the
one on their hit list now I'm not
fearful because it's gotten to the point
where they even kill innocent people
the day I die is the day I will be happy
because I will no longer have to suffer
these struggles but my prayer to God is
that I do not die before the truth is
told it's day 15 since Brian's death his
mother his family and friends lay him to
rest in his rural area they lament that
Brian like so many other young men was
tripped off to deter procces and his
human rights his life and death devalued
[Music]
thousands of extrajudicial killings in
Kenya have been covered up and
unreported personal tragedies hidden
beneath the guise of police success it's
a sad certainty that Brian wasn't the
last young man they'll bury in Nairobi
Kenya
[Music]
[Music]
