this video is brought to you by
storyblocks I'm not exactly sure what
the hell yeah
hello my name is Adam Sandler
[Applause]
1999 with his stand-up SNL and iconic
movie roles under his belt the 1990s
were truly Adam Sandler's and the winner
of the best comedic performance is
Adam Sandler
[Applause]
starring in a brand new motion picture
called Big Daddy all right here we go
and we're both losing weight keen on
writing and starring in comedic roles
Sandler was in his element
the wind at his back in 1999 Adam
started happy
Adam Sandler we're a real happy player
the world saw a wacky unserious comedian
but with Adam there was more than meets
the eye and only one person knew it
some of us thought you were actually
completely out of your mind when you
cast Adam Sandler in this movie
[Music]
what the [ __ ] is your problem he just
makes me laugh
go [ __ ] yourself he's funny to me
our first movie is Punch Drunk Love
starring Adam Sandler in a radical
departure from his usual brain dead
comedies and the headline is Sandler can
really act in 2002 director Paul Thomas
Anderson took what most saw as a risk
and cost Adam Sandler as the lead in a
dramatic role it started with a hunch
but when Paul met Adam on the set of
Little Nicky he said he wanted a work uh
together and do a movie together and I
was just excited and he went to work and
despite it being new territory Adam
didn't take much convincing were you
instantly ready to do this yeah I was
instantly in Paul wrote that movie for
me and I was like oh [ __ ] yeah I think I
could do that that was I was nervous but
I was there's no way I was going to say
I'm not doing this yeah every 10
products you bought and mailed into them
they'd send you a certificate for 500
miles which is a true story a guy went
and bought thousands and thousands of
dollars worth of putting that equaled a
million frequent flyer miles
how much did this cost you cost me a
little over three thousand dollars
that would get you a million entire
Minds who would never have to pay for a
ticket the rest of your life so that
helped but but the main impetus was
wanting to write something for Adam
it's insane
let's go to the bathroom
you see this as a critical time for you
and are you anxious about the way you'll
be received you didn't wonder why me I
mean I love this guy's movies but what
the hell am I going to do in this world
it's a new I guess a new chapter
being I'm happy I met this guy I was
excited to to try to accomplish
something that I haven't uh really done
before
[Music]
you doing in here cutie watching
football who do you want to win the
goddamn Jets his 1999 Comedy Big Daddy
Adam cost's actress Jackie to tone too
bad you don't like girls I think you
could have had her and Adam took his
shorts I was just getting ready to do
big daddy and she was getting into
acting how's the social life going big
changes I hear yeah you have a a new
girlfriend I got a girlfriend now yeah I
read in the paper I had a fiance but I
don't I have a girlfriend yeah I got a
girl I got a girl and I fell in love
with her pretty quick Jackie appears
again the following year in Little Nicky
and in 2002 she acts alongside Adam's
Family in Eight Crazy Nights
eyes
Growing Old With You
and by June 2003 the two of them had
tied the knot they snaked on a ring now
the wedding is very interesting was your
dog the best yes yeah he wasn't the best
man he brought the Rings out got a
girlfriend got a house got a girl in the
house yeah do you find you're becoming
like your dad my dad's like a real guy
he's a real man a big man with a big
personality me and my dad were amazingly
tight yes my father in real life was
highly respected in my household and we
we kind of lived by his rules I love my
dad more than anything and uh anything
he told me to do I would do
I used to love any comedian my father
and mother life
I'd be like oh God I want to be like
that guy he's making my dad happy
[Music]
only three months after his marriage in
September Adam said goodbye to his
father Stanley Sandler I was very tight
with my dad when he was sick I was with
him as much as I could that's why you're
here right now to protect me to be
scared for me to be a good father I
always would tell friends who who didn't
lose their dad you better spend time
with them telling you just it will rock
you I love you son I love you too death
goodbye
let's face it you've got big ideas but
they're just that aren't they
ideas
no more
with storyblocks turn your dreams into
scenes with their curated library of
over a million templates footage music
and more I use storyblocks in my videos
to sprinkle in some extra production
quality like this I can move locations
with a beautiful establishing shot tell
you where we are with unique titles then
flesh out the scene with sound effects
with one surprise for unlimited
downloads and clear-cut Licensing
storyblocks lets you create at a high
standard without any extra path follow
the link in the description or head to
storyblocks.com doddford to get started
I was your college roommate for Christ's
sake you don't remember me yeah very
cool very cool good to see you Burrows
it's Johnson by 2007 Adam's experience
with grief had changed him artistically
I get that you're in pain but you got
each other in rain over me Adam's
character deals with the trauma of
losing his wife and daughters in a plane
crash alongside Don Cheadle Sandler's
suffering is heart-wrenching you had a
family and you suffered a great loss why
why are you asking me are you trying to
focus me and until you can discuss that
friends talk to each other about what's
going on in their lives
we can really talk about that this is
all just an exercise
as an actor are you trying to find some
sense of balance between doing comedy
and drama I had three daughters how do
you feel that this movie is going to
take you in a direction of more of being
more serious this is not something I
thought about ever doing this just
happened they adored me Johnson this
script was so long it was written really
well and moving and it broke my heart
and thought and I felt it at the same
time and then I just decided that when I
committed to it to try to do it the best
I could
Adam typically one to cooler shots was
finding that he found comfort in
relinquishing control to talented
directors ultimately it was just Paul
Thomas Anderson writing me something
when I'm with these great guys it's kind
of relaxing in a way knowing that
they're not gonna move on until they're
happy you know I've only done a few
heavy parts and this by far is the
heaviest and it is not an easy life for
an actor who does that and I was I am
more than happy to run right back to
Comedy just enjoy my life a little more
maybe Adam had grown up a little but
growing up does it have to be so serious
[Music]
2010 Adam cements his return to family
comedies grown-ups is the culmination of
a nearly 20-year-long friendship group I
always want to do stuff with these guys
forever you know I'd rather be with
people I know and I trust who's ready to
get their funeral on so we kind of do it
to do it all together we do it as a team
it's summer
we shoot
it in a lake and that doesn't make you
want to go nuts we kind of live in one
place together our houses all near each
other
we all got kids they all hang out
together
it's pretty good pretty good
on the set of his movies Adam is
worshiped but offset he's never been
widely accepted the critics have said
I'm going to read you my favorite ones
critics haven't necessarily always loved
no your work this movie is the last nail
and Adam Sandler's coffin another said
he's no longer a movie star and another
one called you a man-child first off let
me say thanks for dressing for the show
I appreciate Adam doesn't have really a
great wardrobe what a great outfit that
is you got
Adam Sandler in this movie Jack and Jill
won a record-setting 10 Razzie Sunday
night what does this mean again it means
I can't stand you being
rezzy for worst picture of the year goes
to what do you think
[Music]
when it comes to Adam Sandler there is
one thing we can't agree on that no one
can agree whether or not Adam Sandler is
funny it doesn't matter what the
critters say do you care about like ah
you know it doesn't matter that much to
me I know what they're gonna say every
movie they're gonna say they don't like
it is that something you pay to pinch to
is that something that's bothered you I
have a love in my life
it makes me stronger than anything you
can imagine not very family oriented man
in general well let me start by saying
congratulations I hear babies on the way
and even better I hear it's yours
absolutely I'm addicted to him I love
being with him and uh when I'm not with
them I'm very very depressed I believe
in the hard work and what I'm trying to
accomplish but I just mostly want to be
able to have time with my family and and
give them a good childhood keen on
simply providing for his family Adam is
able to shut off the noise as well as
the bus you know when people talk about
your career they talk about these ups
and then the Downs ups and the Downs man
I don't know what the Downs have been I
got into acting in comedy to try to do
the best I could I loved every movie
I've made I've never in my entire career
phoned one thing in I also see a couple
of grads here today following my path
and becoming a fellow five-time Razzie
Award winner that stuff doesn't hurt me
anymore I think it hurt me 20 years ago
trying to make funny movies and trying
to make kids laugh that was my goal
which if it does happen don't be upset
call me and I'll teach you the proper
way to laugh all the way to the bank
I've been on a plane before you know
we're just talking about that movie
punch drunk love and uh this is a very
nice thing for you there's actually
Oscar buzz yeah how do you feel about
that the Oscar thing the Oscar you know
that's not that's not very San leerian
right now you're doing so well that you
actually start your own production
company Happy Madison Productions yes
the whole goal of the company was to
keep my friends employed first of all
they don't I'm not I can't go to the
awards they don't make a tuxedo out of
sweatpant material
number two uh if I uh buy some weird
freak accident won the thing uh you know
I couldn't take that trophy home because
I know my friends would cut his head off
and make a bong out of them
[Applause]
[Music]
I was with Ben he got a walk a Fame star
and I went and visited him and I said we
got to do a movie together right
[Music]
and I said we took my brothers he said
yeah I was thinking that too
[Music]
I was disappointed in you for quitting
piano
making a similar thought Adam connected
to something very deeply in this guy we
lucked out got to do this together and
it was deep and that was you know you
know it was very moving to me let's get
it together
[Music]
shut the [ __ ] up
in 2017 Adam made his biggest step back
into dramatic acting with the meyerwood
stories was this something that you took
on because it was a challenge or did you
feel it was a natural progression at
this stage of your life and career it
was just just luck that this guy wrote
an amazing movie and handed it to me
it's the most I ever studied before a
project I read it and knew it was a
great movie and it was we didn't start
shooting for like maybe five months
after and I I would study my lines every
night just didn't want to let Noah down
because I didn't want to let the guy
down oh it's our career it's our life
it's movie to movie you can't exactly
say I'm doing this next and then that's
it you don't know what's coming next
holy [ __ ] I'm gonna come
[Music]
your new film uncut gems your
performance is crazy part of what is
happening so I want the Celtics to cover
I want the Celtics halftime I wanted to
talk to you
well the guys who wrote the safety
Brothers how amazing their stuff is and
the fact that they wanted to work with
me that was exciting I heard you've
resurface your [ __ ] swimming pool you
know how that makes me feel like this
morning is it too late should we maybe
be serious right now I don't know I just
know well I'll tell you what I know it's
the dumbest [ __ ] bed I ever heard of
someone like Sandler he can first of all
he's unbelievable from all you know we
grew up on his comedy records they wrote
it for me like 10 years ago I disagree
look in my eyes and they'll tell you
what I'm feeling
let's take his clothes off
[Music]
man this is just something I have to do
I think you are the most annoying person
I have ever met
[Music]
it's okay thank you I'll meet you right
back inside it's all good enough
when I get to do something like this
like uh uncut gems it's a different
excitement for me because I'm not sure
of myself
what I'm supposed to do everything I do
is not going right
and the spirit Award for best male lead
goes to this is my [ __ ] way this is
how I went
I love you guys thank you I'd like to
also give a shout out to my fellow
nominees who will now and forever be
known as the guys who lost the [ __ ]
Adam Saleh
I don't uh try to accomplish something I
feel like I might be uh screwing up a
little and I think that's what drives me
is that I'm I'm kind of obsessed with it
[ __ ] comes your way
connect with it and you go I ain't
[ __ ] this one up it seems like you're
drawn to these characters who are
unlucky you could say losers
I enjoy playing these guys who are
struggling nice
mind my own business admire somebody
doesn't give up so you tell me that's
that
before I beat the hell from you he
doesn't play underdogs he plays
Champions that are overlooked oh
we are delighted to honor one of
Hollywood's most loved comedic actors
today hello my name is Adam Sandler if
he is honored that the
2431st star on the Hollywood Walk of
Fame and I am in the 20th 23 Mark Twain
humor Press award recipient today we
honor Adam Sandler can I get a hell yeah
foreign
standing here is not just a wonderful
son an incredible husband a loving
father a producer a writer and an actor
and a loyal loyal friend I'm soft I'm a
soft man you are and you're a big kid I
think that's why Everyone likes you yeah
he is also dedicated to the people that
helped him get here his fans I've walked
down the street with movie stars and
I've never seen anything like it when
Adam walks down the street he's there
he's present he's he's not somewhere
else my friends who are here today I
want to thank them so much I love you
Adam I love you buddy you see him and
you love him you want to be his friend
that's the truth nobody makes me laugh
like you and nobody has taken better
care of me in this business than you so
he always back me up 100 and make sure I
accomplish whatever I set out to do it's
been a nice just just a great ride I
come from a great family I had an
amazing Mom I had an amazing dad who's
watching down I'm sure he he'd be very
excited about this all they ever did was
make me feel like I'm good at things
they just always made me feel like I was
the star of the family so many people
come out here with the same dreams I had
and somehow I I'm getting to do them and
I really appreciate it and then
Along Came two of the true best things
babies showing up Sadie and sunny I love
you you want to say something every hang
we have I'm only wishing time will stand
still because being with YouTube and
Mommy that's the best life can get
hey Daddy
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
more than anything in the world thanks
for growing old with
[Music]
[Applause]
