oh
you need to see this is the most amazing
thing I've ever seen Kevin Randleman is
about to perform a suplex on Fedor
emilianenko
I also thought we saw the first death in
MMA because Kevin threw him on his head
so hard
oh here we go
he is absolutely in the same categories
of the Wayne Gretzky's the Michael
Jordan's the John elways and yet the
only one doomed to be forgotten indeed
you're the greatest fighter to never
fight in the UFC that's to me the
biggest regret of all of MMA it is a
shame Fedor could have been over in the
UFC and we could have got the best
fighting the best I would have given
anything to see that the crazy Russians
know this you know the real story and
what the truth is she ordered Romulan
ankle is the baddest man on the planet
the baddest the baddest man of the
planet if that's so why did he never
make it to the UFC and you knew I was
going to bring up this man's name Dana
White he says recently he flew to an
undisclosed Island to meet with you and
your team I flew to some violent out in
the middle of nowhere okay did
everything that they asked to do what
exactly happened on that island we made
him the offering he's like
laughing at the offer true the UFC
actually offered you five million
dollars guaranteed no this is not true I
say everything exactly how it happened
the UFC didn't want me to fight there I
want it worse than the fans wanted now
believe me I think they wanted you we
went there for nothing because those
guys literally went there to not make a
deal now from the UFC's perspective
Fedor never faced real competition I
think how can you give him the respect
when he hasn't fought the guys I mean
these guys are fighting three times a
year the best fighters in the world but
you're going to give him the respect UFC
is the biggest organization in MMA
period there's no if ands or buts about
it if you're not a UFC champion even if
you're an elite even if you're fantastic
there's always going to be that thing
that's attached to you that you never
fought in the UFC but back in the early
2000s the best of the best were not in
the UFC
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
[Music]
we had the best fighters in the world he
was so good dude he was so scary and so
stoic and he could submit you or he
could knock you out and God damn he was
good out of his 13 opponents and pride
nine were former or future UFC fighters
amongst them Antonio Rodrigo noguera who
became a UFC champion after Fedor beat
him twice former UFC champ Mark Coleman
who fought into UFC before and after
facing Fedor Fedor also beat him twice
in all of fedor's fights when he grabs a
hold of a limb he almost always finishes
this Mission and when someone grabs a
hold of his limb he almost always
escapes former UFC champion Kevin
Randleman you've seen that one already
MMA Legend Miracle croca who fought in
the UFC after losing to Fedor in one of
the greatest heavyweight fights of all
time and by the way Fedor was only six
foot tall 230 pounds that's relatively
small for a heavyweight fighter
another Russian fighter was also
wreaking havoc in Pride he was known as
the Grim Reaper
he also happened to be fedor's brother
Alexander but his Destiny would be
drastically different your brother
Alexander seems to be the complete
opposite of you he's cocky he's arrogant
in interviews very outspoken he's had
run-ins with the law covered in tattoos
how do two brothers
same parents same surroundings grow up
completely different to answer that
question we got to go to Russia
what
not available
can I also do that for Netflix content
positive surf shark also offers a 30
days money back guarantee there's no
risk to try it out with this promo code
they'll get 83 off in three months for
free just click the link in the
description thanks to surfshark for
sponsoring this video now let's get back
to it I think every little boy during
his childhood in Russia dreams about
becoming strong but in Theodore's case
that was not gonna happen does it
chicken woman
did you come from a very loving home did
your parents show you a lot of affection
or were they more harder disciplinary
parents there was discipline but
everything was done based on love
whereas for my younger brothers
Alexander it was not as strict we came
from a poor family there were four
children in our family so we only ate
potatoes and because his parents worked
a lot Fedor took care of his brothers
I followed his footsteps he used to take
me with him to the gym initially I was
not getting a lot of results I'm not all
that talented let's say
foreign
at 18 years old Fedor chooses to join
the Army every young man should be able
to stand up not only for himself but
also for his family and for his country
um
the Army allowed me to live without
parents Guardianship and to live with a
Stern group of men that's why it only
hardened me
I served for two years
for the first I served at a fire station
and the second year at the tank
divisions
Alex chooses another path he gets
involved in street fights crime and four
reasons undisclosed to this day ends up
serving a prison sentence as a teenager
he comes out of prison with those
tattoos now those aren't your average
kind of tattoos
under Joseph Stalin millions of people
were sent to forced labor camps known as
gulags within those prison camps an
organized criminal group emerged and
evolved over Generations the thieves in
law it has evolved into an autonomous
organization with its own set of laws
and customs dedicated to perfecting the
life lived under the shadow of the law
these real criminals were the elites of
the camp often sporting specific tattoos
related to Russian Orthodoxy and culture
and terrorizing other inmates
[Music]
the stars in front of the shoulders they
mean you're a criminal Authority
the symbol of a cathedral indicate the
number of years spent in prison each
Dome represents one year Alex Cathedral
has five domes true or false you once
tried to help your brother Alex break
out of prison no I never tried and
I always tried to help Alexander but if
he does something wrong he needs to take
responsibility the thieves in law swear
to their own set of laws including the
duty to support criminal ideas and the
rejection of any form of Labor did you
ever find it hard at that time to stay
away from that criminal element that was
so prevalent in Russia and I I guess so
attractive to so many fighters at the
time even during hard times in Russia
never looked in the direction of crime I
was always enticed only by the sports so
while Fedor starts training with fellow
soldiers in the Army Alex started doing
the same in prison both training from
the same goal under drastically
different ideas
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
[Music]
party
[Music]
ideas
[Music]
[Music]
in 2007 Pride collapses that's when Dana
White enters the picture we went out and
we made them a crazy offer to come into
the UFC and prove that he was the best
in the world and they turned it down
nobody in the right mind would have
turned that deal down you can get things
to instead Fedor joins a new MMA
promotion called affliction foreign
[Music]
ER UFC Champions Tim Sylvia and Andre
arlovsky Affliction Trilogy has been
canceled after only two events
Affliction shuts down I'm at a point now
where I'm just so sick of talking about
this guy because they make me so crazy
he is usually the route with the
fighters if not respect he doesn't want
to fight I talk some smack about them
they talk so smack about me it doesn't
mean that uh that we can't get deals
done and by the time he went to Strike
Force he was already you know miles on
the odometer I just don't think he was
the same guy that's when things take a
dark turn I said you're one punch away
from being worth zero
it's hitting that dude now right they
lay a bed and they turn the lights off
and they just go
dude I'm taking that deal Alex is
accused of kidnapping and sexually
assaulting a housekeeper he's sentenced
to four years of prison
[Applause]
2016 the fighting promotion of Chechen
leader ramzan khadirov puts on a fight
involving children Fedor is appalled and
calls out the organization a week later
as she's walking back from school
fedor's daughter gets brutally attacked
she ends up in the hospital kadira then
releases a statement claiming to be
certain that Fedor realized his mistake
Alec comes out of prison two years
before the end of his sentence and signs
with kadiro's promotion foreign
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
the sport when people talk about you in
30 40 years how do you want to be
remembered Alexander
[Music]
do you think his legacy was tarnished
for the fact that he never made it here
to the UFC
I I I don't listen I I don't I don't
want to I'm the guy you know he's he's
retiring tonight and all that stuff but
I never was one of the guys that thought
he was one of the greatest of all time
yes yes
foreign
[Music]
foreign
foreign
[Music]
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
Dana White was never able to sign Fedor
but that didn't stop him from creating
the biggest MMA Empire in the world in
this video right here I covered the
controversial but genius strategies he
used to get there make sure you check it
out I hope you enjoyed the video and
I'll see you guys in the next one
