[Music]
the problem is with things like
Endurance Sports is what you deem
failure to yourself is completely
different as to what others deem
failure so I'm going to get a barcel
owner and I want to do
959 if I go there and do 10:01 it's a
personal best Iron Man and everyone's
going to go oh that's amazing mate you
did an Iron Man in 10 hours 1 minute
that's great but I'm going to be
massively
[Music]
disappointed 959 at Barcelona means
nothing to anyone other than me that's
it the
[Music]
end doing something like an iron man
ratifies the whole reason why you train
do you know what I mean if you just go
out and train then I'm kind of a targets
driven
person I want to know how fast I went I
want to know if I'm improving this year
and unless you race you never you never
know you just go out and ride your bike
for 5 hours well was that better than
last time I rode my bike for 5 hours I
don't know so I'm kind
of I'm goal driven in order to see how
I'm progressing and there's no better
way of seeing how you're progressing and
racing against other
people yeah I've done one a couple of
years ago down in wouth in the UK I was
aiming for around 11 hours you've never
ever done 11 hours worth of exercise
You' got no idea how that's going to
feel that's the difficulty in it really
and you know it's going to hurt and you
know it's going to be mind over matter
for a lot of it so yeah from going to
just under 11 hours at wouth I'm aiming
to go just under 10 hours at um
Barcelona it's quite a big step up
really I'm not sure if it's achievable
we'll see on race day the swim will be
the same I'm hoping to lose about 40 to
45 minutes off my bike time at Barcelona
um do the same Transitions and then I
need to run about 10 minutes
quicker when you get to your adult life
and you get a proper job and it all kind
of slips away and I just ended up in the
rat race of modern society where you you
put on some weight and you're working in
a job where you sit down all day and I
don't remember the process of going from
skinny fit teenager to being like mid
20s overweight looking in the mirror
going what happened to me so if you want
to turn it around you've got to do
something about it and I'm not the sort
of person that can just go oh well I'll
go running every day and I I'll just get
fit I have to sign up for something
where I've got an event that I'm aiming
for
and train towards that event and that's
that's what triathlons did for me really
was you know you put something in the
calendar there's a marker in the
calendar there's something to train for
you are going to be there at 5:00 a.m.
racking your bike putting a wet suit on
and if you haven't put the effort in
it's going to be horrible so put the
effort
in what's your prediction in terms of
how realistic you think it is going
under 10
hours I'm 50/50 as if that would ever
happen I should be going to Barcelona
and going I want to finish in the top 5%
or I want to finish in the top 2%
whereas running a race for a particular
time is completely the wrong way to go
about it well it might be a really hot
day it might be really windy it might be
really choppy it you actually want to
finish in a particular percentage in the
field but 10 hours seems to be a bit
like a 3-hour marathon if you know
there's Runners out there 3-hour
marathon's always kind of
the the golden you know the golden time
that people aspire to and I think like a
sub 10 hour Iron Man is the you know
that's kind of like the Pinnacle of the
amateur
triathlete tomorrow I'm going to do
basically a full- on dress rehearsal for
Barcelona by calling it a metric Iron
Man so it's just going to be 2.4 km swim
instead of a 2.4 mile swim same again
for the bike same again for the run so
total will be 14.2 kilm instead of miles
and it's literally 62% of an Iron Man
hoping to do it
about 6 hours to 6 hours 10 you can't do
an Iron Man in training for an Iron Man
cuz you just kill yourself for the next
month basically you know you're not
going to you're not going to improve
that way so this is probably as close to
like race conditions as I can possibly
get um without completely killing
myself
yep that's
hard it's never going to be easy it is
hard you start to I'm getting to that
point in my life where I might not have
many years left of improving my fitness
I may as well try as hard as I can now
while I've got the body that'll enable
me to do it as hard as I can now got to
do another 38% more distance than today
wow bit resting should be all
right I'm hoping that salt sea water and
not sweat otherwise I need to drink
more
oh
a really bad stomach pains I went to see
the doctor in the morning and uh he had
a bit of a prod around and and said we
get you booked in with a surgeon just
have a chat in a couple of hours time so
I straight down to the hospital and the
surgeon saw me straight away and had a
prod around and said yeah we've got a
slim theater in like 3 hours we'll whip
your appendix out
so uh originally I was told it'd be
about a 45 minute procedure just Keyhole
surgery and then I'd probably be able to
go home the next day but uh yeah I had
some complications um I woke up about 4
and a half hours later and had a stomach
drain in and they'd had to turn the
operation into a normal operation rather
than a keyhole one and my appendix had
already ruptured by the time they got in
there so so this is my current Trion
training i' say the corridor is probably
150 M and if I can walk from one end to
the other then that's great every the
time you think about all the negatives
you know what I mean you're ly in a
hospital bed thinking H well that's it
in 6 weeks time I'll start lightly
training again in you know 3 months time
I'll be back onto you know a proper
training program and by then I won't
have very long to go to Barcelona so
mentally it's it's
devastating
so here we are home again officially an
outpatient we can get rid of
this lose the hospital
tags and here's my
disheveled postsurgery body that's it
I'm never going to be able to do the
Iron Man I'm never going to be able to
go sub 10 hours and that's it and you
just think about all the negatives and
that you're never going to you're
literally never going to do it in your
life that's it it's all over and then
you come out hospital and step by step
you build your strength back so I've
just been out on my time TR bike for the
first time since my operation I just
went out and did about an hour on the
bike at a sort of very sensible heart
rate and actually I have to be honest my
legs felt okay my the bit where I've had
my operation my actual Scar the seam of
my Triathlon suit just runs straight
over the top of the scar and that was
the limiting thing I was going to do an
hour and a half but I had to come home
after an hour because it's just hurting
you have to accept that you set yourself
a training program and you've got to
take it in your stride not kind of
pretending to be anything I'm not you
know I'm not a prole I'm an average guy
I've got a full-time job I've got a
family and in hindsight now it's easy to
look back and think about it but it was
actually good for me because you can
overtrain and the tedium of just
training day in day out week in week out
it can actually set you back whereas I
had a complete month and a half off and
I did nothing
and when you start you've got more Drive
you've got more motivation you're more
rested your body's had a proper you know
a proper recovery and actually it was
probably good for me I never would have
been able to force myself to have that
kind of break without an injury or you
know an illness or a hospital trip so it
it probably did me a favor in the long
run
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
we're here there's the Finish Line
that's it Sunday
today practice the finishing pose and
watch your prediction Crossing that
Finish Line come
Sunday one or two ways it's 50/50 it's
literally black and white it's 10 hours
and 1 second or it's 95959 there's no
like you know if I do 11 hours or 12
hours I'll feel exactly the same as I
would doing 10 hours 1 second you know
I've obviously been in hospital had my
appendix out and thought I was going to
have to cancel it and so on so forth
just go through this whole long journey
and it seems like the last 5 months of
my life have all been building up to
today you know I've got a job and I've
got a family and stuff so there is other
stuff going on in the background but in
my mind all the time it's like oh yeah
I'm doing I'm a Barcelona in 5 months
time in four months time in 3 months
time and there's a training plan going
on and so on so forth so yeah so it's a
big deal so yeah it becomes a big deal
or be it in your own mind really no one
else cares if I do 101 or 959
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
how you feeling hurting now just
hurts 10 to play
10 just need to keep eating
we got low battery on my watch about
half an hour ago so I'm running blind
soon leave the 10 see at the
Finish
I don't know what time I did my watch
batter's dead and I didn't see the
screen thank you so
much thank
youxia what time did I do just seeing
that sign that says like Finish Line 200
M away I wanted to cry it's like that's
it I've done it I'm there I'm going to
turn onto the carpet now and the only
thing was I didn't know what time I was
on I tried to like I was looking for C
and Lexi I couldn't see them in the
crowd I saw one of my um friends from
the trif on Club I high-fived him and
then ran around to the left and the
right high-fiving people I finally saw K
and Lexi at the end and uh gave them a
high five and I didn't look at the
screen above my head either as I went
over the finish line so I didn't
actually know what time i'
done what time did I do you want to know
yeah
9:36 with about 7K to go I just went off
field and just started pushing and
pushing and I had one last gel one last
like en event thing I dropped the bottle
and just that was it just go for it and
that was awesome I got to the Finish
shootting there was no one else in it so
I could take my time and just enjoy it
yeah that's amazing that's
I think she was probably more relieved
than I was that I did sub 10 hours cuz
now she knows I don't have to sign up
for another one and try and do it
again um and they were brilliant
obviously you know our daughter's like
20 months old um yeah they were down
there at first thing on the bike course
and I saw them on the turnaround on the
bike course and then they were there for
every lap of the Run course and after I
finished it started tipping it down with
rain and they were just waiting outside
the change tent in the rain for me to go
and get my recovery f food and get
changed and everything yeah just give
them a big hug and say say thank
you and none of those 3,400 competitors
or whatever the were yesterday have got
to that start line without putting
themselves through a significant amount
of
training you know sacrificing things etc
etc and everyone's got their own story
you know there's cancer survivors there
that have been in absolutely no shape to
do a 5k that have gone I do an Iron Man
in two years time and they've you know
trained and trained and trained and
they're doing it for charity and they're
doing it for a good cause and all that
sort of stuff and they get to the Finish
Line just before the cut off in like you
know 15 hours and they're an emotional
wreck cuz you know that was their that
was their goal um you've got guys with
lesser goals like me that just want to
do a particular time um but it means
something to
me
