I don't think we have such a player type
like without the Alpha nahusa free yield
it was the third best player in the
world
Dominic ADEA it's a good finish if you
give me a chance you scoff you try for a
seder right clinical finishes look
promising start to the Chaya for a
football player often result in hype and
expectations from the media and the fans
this is more prevalent in Ghana where
talented youngsters are put under
instant scrutiny and are touted to be
the next big thing where the hype comes
in turns pressure and there are some who
thrive under this while the others who
feel away we look at seven Ghanaian
talents who feel to live up to the hype
generated around their new data lamda
came to the limelight in 1991 during the
FIFA under-17 World Cup in Italy grana
won the tournament and neo dartle auntie
was voted as the tournament's best
player until the ball stopped maybe you
take it away from him for the opening
the opening of the ball but when oh that
is having the ball and not like Ronnie
just running you know is very fast on
the ball the skills is there the speed
is there the power everything good at
ease you know when you're talking about
football that is also another player
that I don't think we have such a player
type like Oh Dottie from E going out I
don't think we have such a player with
like afternoon and all around you know
creative player by all standards with a
lot of energy a lot of pace
and a lot of football whipped I mean
this was somebody who back then you know
also drew a lot of confidence from the
fans I mean he struck a lot of
confidence with the football fans
anytime he had to wear the jersey for
Ghana Billy Sherrill pieces on him
describing him as his natural successor
sadly his career never matched the
promise he showed and became a gentleman
player in Europe now during this period
between the Netherlands and England was
where growth came and troubles also came
growth in the sense that he on every
occasion as he wore the shirt at PSV F
Coventry f you know at Aston Villa gave
further reason why he was named FIFA
under-17 best player in the world at
that time now fast forward he made some
very good money but unfortunately his
agents his managers you know gave him a
raw deal and of course because of the
relatively low levels of education on a
spot he ended up losing a lot of money I
would do Asaka nicknamed that Disco
Dancer
in 1995 soon after helping gonna to win
the under-17 World Championship
Misaka signed a contract at Belgian club
RSC underlit where he mainly played for
the aut he later joined exerts a hopping
Ghana to finish 4th position at FIFA
under-20 youth championship in 1997 in
Malaysia Halawa Asaka Croydon reached
the heights which he should have with
his prodigious talent he socket BOTS
national media attention as a schoolboy
and was healed as the next big hope for
the national team while he will point to
Talent it is undeniable that a
combination of injuries and bad luck has
meant that the talented player hasn't
been able to meet the expectations of
the media and fan
Placido say a silver Bovina with the
2007 World Cup under-17 squad in Korea
as well as v-neck in pain in a 2009
satellite World Cup winning team
following his experts at the 2007 and a
17 World Cup where he won the adidas
silver shoe as the competition's second
highest goalscorer with 8 goals coming
second by one go to McCulloch Chris
Santos of Nigeria he also had
unsuccessful things with blue fencing
Celtic and Asante Kotoko before
returning to South Africa to sign for
polokwane ECT in 2015 his time in lung
Papa was mad when in jeans and he
managed just three substitute appearance
during his time with polo chronic
[Music]
a wusu affair
Oh Sofia nickname big caught everyone's
attention during the 1997 under-17 World
Cup in Egypt he was gonna stop scorer
and the third highest scorer in the
tournament with four goals sadly his
Korean never Mazda promised he showed
best player in the world and he got a
contract in Malaga he signed Malaga FC
in Spain he qualified the team to the -
De La Liga Premier League and then I
think they are way around at an injury
he had an injury and then you know when
injury setting your performance drop to
the lower level and that's what really
actually up into he stopped playing in
the early days we were still playing
playing Black Stars and everything he
was nowhere to be found
because he started to do a different
thing now it's in Germany working as I
showed you in 2001 if we return to Ghana
to spend two seasons with the kraaho so
food before spending a further two
seasons in Austria with felt catching
shot spots in Spain and England which
preceded the final returned to hassle
food where he finished his career in
2007 Daniel Aparri so much was expected
from him after showing much promise
after 2007 FIFA under-17 World Cup he
was recognized by the world soccer
magazine as one of the 50 most exciting
teenagers on the planet due to his
incredible foot speed and position
crossing he and a move to Real Madrid
Castilla
after the tournament apparel field to
break into Madrid first team and has
multi various teams in Europe instead
for playing time
Domenic idea that's my glimpse of his
talent he has never really built on the
promise he showed in the leds of hearts
offlaners and the national under-20 team
idea was our water the golden shoe for
the top scorer with eight goals in seven
games was not ready for that what
happened in Egypt I told myself yeah
this the biggest time for me now I need
to go further to achieve what I'm
looking for he's a good finisher if you
give him a chance he will score you and
it's very sharp is always hungry it's a
good player and strong and she strike
just after impressing in the under-20
World Cup and he joined a similar but
relatively a single game for the Syria
are giants probably probably that move
to AC Milan is what caused the whole you
know problem obviously for business
reasons on the side of AC Milan don't
want us to purchase the player improve
his lot I'm valued to him and make him a
big commercial product now the
expectation from the kind of performance
that he had put up was that he was going
to get an opportunity to play in AC
Milan Papa you know and of course this
is at a time when you know AC Milan was
doing very well but had big names you
know and that was where you know the
bone of contention was it becomes very
difficult when a player makes a move
into a club that already has a big name
and established players I believe some
choices we make you know during our
playing career help you or break you
that move was a big no-no he not done
that me but you know go to the gun in on
this is him an ante when it was good was
you know the onions loved it and it was
good for him entry wise everything so
you won't use judge the whole situation
clearly a talented player that has
consistently fluttered to deceive at a
similar and foods look like the finished
article Sadiq Adams Adams was recognized
by Warhawk magazine as one of the 50
most exciting teenagers on the planet in
the November 2007 release
he's called for goes in 2007 FIFA
under-17 Walker for Ghana Adams signed a
pre-contract for atlético Madrid and
chin with a reserve side seems FIFA
allowed international transfer to happen
for players under 18 he however joined
atlético Madrid B and played for the
side from 2008 to 2009 in May 2009 Adams
was banned by FIFA for four months and
fined one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars for abandoning a contract he had
with a tour d'azyr how to move to
Atletico Madrid
Adam Styles no blossom as many expected
a man obento bento captain Ghana team
that won the 1995 FIFA under-17 World
Championship scoring what turned out to
be the winning goal in the 3-2 victory
over basil in the final he subsequently
designed for German giants Brian Willie
with ghanians were expecting a lot from
him however he never made a fast team
appearance for the side in three years
mental tackle has four continents in
2007 where he signed for Vietnamese side
Kotaku can wha
he moved again in 2008 to play for harp
on Azeroth in Israel and played the
entire 2009 season for the team before
again living at the end of a
if you're looking at the under-17
competition and you're looking at the
players like Dominique idea or Perry and
the posh marvelous a clinical finishes
and of course very top defenders indeed
if you look at a fight for instance
exist but actually earn him that call-up
to Real Madrid but the questioning is
where these players right for those big
stage some would say yes they needed it
to boost your confidence
others to tell you that you needed to
wait and bit your time one of the key
problems that have happening to Africa
and of course to the name players and
it's not peculiar to really Ghana
Nigeria as well is that these players
that you see playing down a seventeen
level are players who normally don't
play with their right ages and so they
get opportunity to move to these top
clubs and they come fit into the rhythm
and the play of the team because there's
another key component of you know sports
medicine where players who are of
seventeen eighteen or even teenagers you
are given a certain dosage of you know
medicine based on your injury and your
age and because Pacific EULA situation
of our players it goes a long way to
affect them so the problem Africa to a
large extent of heart is that we play in
these competitions with other ages
because you're supposed to be on the
same age bracket with a top player so it
means that in Africa we are not able to
nurture that talent with the same age to
meet up with the demands of football
other ages that is why you have a player
like Ryan Giggs or Adrian - ah who
played to the ages of 40 years and
retire we can also say that there's a
particular situation with Roger Milla
was a pleasure to work up over a over 40
years but that's just one of situation
because he had to come in as what one of
the key legends to the side whenever
played at the World Cup and so there was
a need for him to play that now I want
to give you a trickle example I've had a
treat after not to see a tweet of you
know static Adams where he took a
picture with himself and David here and
in that tweet he supposed to tell
ghanians Alyssa never had to play
football with the likes of DVD under and
the rest at a time when he was
struggling in Ghana playing for ash
gourd or contra call deputy here is
playing for Manchester United and so the
big question is what happened to you
[Music]
