anas Aro anas one of BBC's investigative
journalists have come out to speak on
their documentary on the late senior
Prophet tib Joshua now since the
documentary was released the questions
most people have been asking is that why
did BBC wait for tib Joshua to die
before they are now coming out with a
documentary on him a lot of people are
of the opinion that BBC should have done
this documentary on the late Prophet
Joshua while he was alive because now
that he's dead and they've done this
documentary on him how will he be able
to defend
himself and how will we be able to know
that all these so-called victims are not
lying against him since the dead cannot
speak well a nurse has come out to
answer our questions in a short
interview with ar TV he has explained
why the BBC released this documentary on
the late Prophet Tibi Joshua even though
he is dead watch the video that follows
for all the details thank you for
this just introduce for for those who
don't know you my name
ish and I work with
thec I'm you are part of this well um I
wouldn't say we all have contributed to
it to make this documentary sucess okay
now what is the major take away from
this well I think that the major take
away from this is the level of abuse
that we've all seen in this film and I
don't want us to look at it with the
lenses of religion it's a pure human
rights abuse story which all of us as
journalists have been do and when you
have a situation where girls have been
raped girls have been sexually abused
where there are manipulations of
Miracles and others it's about time we
say no to these things and we stand fa
and say it as it is let people know what
the real story
is a lot of people perceive this as an
attack on the church well I don't think
it is and I have emphasized that we are
not here to talk about Rel we are here
to talk about human rights abuses we've
done stories on human rights abuses all
lives as journalist this is not any
different from the stories we do and I
think that if there is something wrong
as journalist we should have the courage
we should have the the energy to be able
to tell it as it is if it's a human
right man is
now what what do you think what are
recommendations the death of a person
does not mean that the issue is there
there are
equally important and many victims who
have have suffered as a result of the
atrocity we talk about hler today he's
dead but we talk about the atrocities
and the human rights abuses that to we
talk about um um a lot of leaders
tutorial leaders who have committed
crimes and we still talk about them so
the death of a man does not extinguish
the crime we have to be bold as African
journalist to tell it as once it affects
have you thought about the trauma all
these women have going through have you
thought about the the problemss that
these people are facing how do we
address the situation there is
government um um side of it where when
the church broke down nothing happened
as journalist we should be asking the
question what was government supposed to
do why is it that nobody was brought to
when clearly the building fell as a
result of um structural def so these are
all issues we have to look at as
journalists and ask the right questions
to make sure that
there an
answer yeah so that was what anas had to
say about why the BBC released this
documentary on the late Prophet TI
Joshua even though he is dead please
what do you think about what he said let
us know in the comment section below uh
we realized that the video was very very
noisy we apologize I think when they
were interviewing him the place was very
noisy that's why the interviewer
couldn't help it and it appear yes he
was also one of the people that worked
uh on the on the interview anyway guys
what do you think uh also don't forget
to subscribe to the channel as we'll
bring you more and more videos until
then see you in the next one God bless
you
bye-bye
