I believe that Arlene and Steve are
I have a problem I can't discuss it
right now especially on camera welcome
to watch Mojo and today we're counting
down our picks for the top 20 creepiest
documentaries I also must admit that I
feel very affectionate towards Nancy as
I'm sure I've displayed many times even
in your presence for this list we're
looking at film documentaries that
tackle dark topics in an unsettling way
because we're only looking at Movies
multi-part TV shows will not be included
have you seen any of these documentaries
what do you make of the real stories let
us know in the comments below number 20.
mommy dead and dearest released by HBO
mommy dead and dearest Chronicles the
events that led to Dede Blanchard's
death the truth is
I did actually
it details how she committed factitious
disorder imposed on another or what was
once known as Munchausen Syndrome by
proxy on her daughter Gypsy Rose
Blanchard essentially made it seem like
her daughter suffered from a number of
terrible ailments while upholding the
LIE the mother put her child through
unnecessary surgeries and other Terrible
Things Gypsy Rose then conspired with
her boyfriend Nicholas godijan to kill
Blanchard it's unsettling to think of
the horrors that pushed a daughter to
slay her own mother no matter how you
view it mommy dead and dearest makes for
one creepy viewing experience I think
playing with myself and I blame other
people but I never once playing Beyond
number 19 tabloid back in September of
1977 Mormon missionary Kirk Anderson was
supposedly abducted and abused by a
woman named Joyce McKinney the story
became known as the manacled Mormon case
she said to him she was going to go on
having sex with him until she found she
missed a period
and would then hopefully be pregnant by
him this terrifying story was
extensively covered in the British
tabloids specifically the warring Rivals
Daily Express and Daily Mirror the
documentary tabloid conveys these events
with unnerving detail and is even
narrated by Joyce McKinney herself that
shocking Choice immediately brings
viewers closer to the case than they
expected as a result those watching will
further question the story that she
weaves because it has multiple
viewpoints and perspectives I made
everything that he wanted I was like his
little you know
laffy almost number 18 there's something
wrong with Aunt Diane this troubling
documentary tells the story of the 2009
Taconic State Parkway crash a nasty
traffic collision that resulted in eight
deaths it was a horrific scene on a
Taconic Park where I near Route 117 this
afternoon this burned out shell was all
that remained of a minivan after the
head on Crash which left eight people
dead it was caused by a woman named
Diane Schuler the titular Aunt Diane on
that fateful day she was the one
traveling on the Parkway in the wrong
direction it's a very disconcerting
story that is rooted in unimaginable
tragedy throughout the documentary
upsetting questions are raised about
Schuler's State of Mind between footage
of the accident interviews with grieving
individuals and some rather
uncomfortable topics there's something
wrong with Aunt Diane puts forth a very
uneasy atmosphere I feel like someone's
gonna say 10 years later it proves what
happened
there's so much more to the story number
17 team foxcatcher the story of John
Dupont was famously captured in the 2014
film Fox catcher which earned five Oscar
nominations you have a problem with me
John I don't have a problem
team foxcatcher was released two years
later and serves as an eerie companion
piece retelling the story with a more
grounded and arguably more disturbing
angle this Netflix documentary uses
harrowing archival footage to tell its
story viewers are also given a rather
personal and alarming glimpse into the
mind of a killer by incorporating all
these details viewers get a sense of
what led to DuPont's horrifying actions
the documentary explores how mental
illness wealth and power can create a
nightmarish situation Dave Schultz was
the truest friend John had
number 16 room 237 The Shining is one of
the most elusive films of all time
inviting endless interpretations and
reading since its release in 1980 room
237 honors the movie's Legacy and
examines some of the most profound and
intriguing readings but it looks like
he's
it looks like he's a giant like
clearing the clearing the forest topics
like American imperialism Greek
mythology and the Holocaust are explored
in depth the famous conspiracy that
Stanley Kubrick helped fake the moon
landing is also covered room 237
ultimately stands as a spooky complex
and endlessly riveting glimpse into the
granddaddy of all horror films its
off-putting interpretations proved to be
nearly as frightening as the movie
itself this is an impossible window it's
not it is impossible that it is
physically impossible it cannot be there
it should not be there there's no place
in the hotel for this window to exist
number 15 this is the Zodiac speaking
much has been written about the Zodiac
killings get on your stomach so I can
tell your feet okay
it gets really cold out here at night we
could freeze
at this point the case is among the most
discussed serial tragedies in American
history this is the Zodiac speaking is
one of the most definitive documentaries
about the case it contains interviews
with retired police officers and
criminal profilers their first-hand
accounts of the case give viewers
unfettered access into the distressing
story that has captivated Americans and
True Crime enthusiasts for decades the
disturbing Story covers how zodiac
targeted innocent people and flippantly
discussed his crimes all the interviews
in the documentary play on his notoriety
seeing the impact the cases had on
people's psyches is arguably even
scarier than the story itself I would
say the paranoia Indonesia lasted a good
six to seven months
people were very concerned and it
escalated every time after another
reported killing number 14 the killing
of America released in 1982 the killing
of America argues that the United States
is in the midst of a messy cultural
collapse the title has both metaphorical
and literal layers to it much of the
film is centered around the incredible
wave of violence that struck America in
the 60s and 70s a few weeks after the
assassination of President Kennedy the
murder rate exploded upward tripled in
just 10 years
and continues to the present day this
includes the assassination of John and
Robert Kennedy the rise of serial
killers and a very distressing shooting
it's a shocking documentary that leaves
viewers feeling extremely uncomfortable
featuring genuine footage of violence
and interviews with the likes of
criminals like Sirhan Sirhan and Ed
Kemper the killing of America makes for
one distressing watch new breed of
killer appeared
they didn't want money or sex or Revenge
it was a new kind of murder
the senseless killing of random
strangers number 13 the cannibal that
walked free having aired on the British
station channel 5 the cannibal that
walked free is a nightmarish glimpse
into one of Humanity's darkest crimes
through the lens of Japanese criminal
issei sagawa it explores the psychology
behind cannibalism 26 years ago Mr
murdered and at a woman in Paris he is
never so trial
today he walks the Tokyo streets a free
man in June of 1981 sagawa killed and
desecrated a student named Renee
hartevelt but he was allowed to walk
free thanks to a legal snafu between
France and Japan this documentary delves
into sagawa's crimes and the psychology
behind his actions through interviews
with sagawa himself seeing this
perturbing story get conveyed through
the lens of the perpetrator can be skin
crawling for many it may prove too much
to bear you see the beautiful goals on
the train in the summer and you see
their legs don't you I think they look
delicious that much is true number 12.
Wisconsin death trip based on a
non-fiction book of the same name
Wisconsin death trip is a Sinister
docudrama about a turbulent time in
Wisconsin history the story follows a
series of disturbing occurrences that
plagued the state in the late 19th
century grave of Mrs Sarah Smith was
Unearthed for the purpose of removing
the remains
and upon opening the coffin
it was discovered that she'd been buried
while in a trance this includes the
abandoning of children homicides arson
and Supernatural delusion as if the
subject matter wasn't troubling enough
the docudrama is also shot in silent
black and white to convey the style of
old movies the Aged cinematography
immediately puts viewers on edge
meanwhile the Contemporary newspaper
accounts are chillingly narrated by Ian
Holm the combined effect is one of deep
and uncomfortable surrealism we can say
honestly but we know of few states or
cities which offer the advantages of
those enjoyed by Wisconsin and Black
River Falls number 11. Eileen warnos the
selling of a serial killer Eileen warnos
was a sex worker who killed seven
clients between 1989 and 1990. two years
later Nick Broomfield made a documentary
most of the film is centered around
broomfield's attempts at conducting an
interview with warnos in prison I was
doing fine until Tara told me start
going to see strangers and make more
money that's how I wound up in the
situation as she discusses the case
viewers witnessed the troubling defense
that she put forth and the implications
that it represented the interviews with
warnos are also bone Shilling it's clear
that her life was full of extensive pain
and suffering at every stage years later
the documentary became an enormous
inspiration for Charlize Theron who
would later win an Oscar for playing
warnos in Monster hey I don't need a rut
because I want to take a car number 10.
The Imposter it gives you nightmares
it really does in 1994 13 year old
Nicholas Barkley disappeared in Texas
three years later a man claiming to be
Nicholas came forward but this man
wasn't Nicholas at all he was Frederick
Bordeaux a French con artist The
Imposter explains how Bordeaux was able
to get away with it for so long despite
being significantly older than Nicholas
and not looking anything like him it's
incredibly disturbing how Bordeaux
inserted himself into the Barkley family
and tricked them into accepting him most
remarkable of all however is the
director Bart Layton conducted
interviews with bordon himself which
makes the case even more complex as he
somehow manages to come across as
sympathetic from as long as I remember
I wanted to be someone else number nine
cropsy growing up on Staten Island
Barbara and I had often heard the legend
of cropsy
for the kids in our neighborhood cropsy
was the Escape mental patient who lived
in the tunnels beneath the old abandoned
Willowbrook mental institution a pair of
filmmakers who grew up on Staten Island
decided to take a closer look at the New
York version of The Boogeyman cropsy and
how or if this urban legend fits into
the Mysteries involving a series of
kidnapped children in the 70s and 80s
when your child disappears
and you don't know
where that child is to a parent the
child is never dead from the letters
Prime Suspect Andre Rand sends the
documentarians claiming his innocence to
investigating the tunnels underneath the
condemned Willowbrook state school for
people with neurodevelopmental
disabilities and finally theories about
devil worshipers cropsy is sure to send
a chill down your spine is there satanic
Cults people that practice of course
there is
but it's something that's kept very
quiet something that uh not many
departments investigate number eight the
bridge so then I cut over just to see or
maybe possibly help the Golden Gate
Bridge may be one of America's most
iconic landmarks and the image that
comes to mind when you think of the city
of San Francisco but for many its
looming presence is a symbol of tragedy
this documentary takes a closer look at
some of these tragic incidents in 2004
but it certainly isn't easy viewing it
remains controversial with reports of
bridge jumpers increasing after the
documentary was released and in 2015 it
was even removed from Netflix in New
Zealand Gene had people in this world
that loved him
and he heard them
if I see him again that's what I want to
tell he heard me and I didn't think you
would ever do that number seven holy
hell I thought I was capturing life and
expressing love while searching for a
new home and a new purpose in the 1980s
film grad will Allen fell in with the
buddhafield new religious movement a
cult based in West Hollywood at the time
it was all designed to show how devoted
you really were he wanted to control the
social lives the interactions of
everybody what they did Allen became the
group's documentarian and lived with
them for 22 years finally leaving in
2007. he became inspired to make a movie
and used all the footage he had of his
time with the buddhafield cult and its
leader Michelle to create holy hell this
direct look at the inner workings of
occult is both rare and creepy made all
the more unsettling by the fact that the
cult continues to this day now based in
Hawaii even to this day I just I don't
understand
some people still stayed number six the
family I had originally intended to
examine juvenile criminals in the U.S
this documentary quickly shifted to
focus on the personal tragedy faced by
charity Lee in February 2007 involving
her young daughter she was
in a body bag
it follows charity as she grapples with
the reality of her son having killed her
daughter as she Mourns Ella's loss but
refuses to abandon Paris still visiting
him in prison it's difficult to know
what to make of this uncomfortable watch
as the film leans into the fact that
with True Crime there are no easy
answers I try
to keep everything as
benign as possible
I don't want to do anything that's going
to make Paris want to hurt him number
five titicate Follies
[Music]
one of the most disturbing films ever
made titicate Follies was banned for
over 20 years upon release shot in black
and white with no narration it's a raw
expose of the injustices that Americans
with mental health issues faced in the
1960s specifically centered on the
Bridgewater State Hospital in
Massachusetts the film shows the gross
mistreatment of the inmates all people
in need of real care who were
dehumanized and abused by those tasked
with looking after them if I see enough
Improvement in you but how can I improve
if I'm getting worse I'm trying to tell
you day by day I am getting worse
because of the circumstances because of
the situation despite being banned the
film was able to draw attention to these
issues though it still took decades for
this to begin whatever since you're
created by the use of your sense of
touch
number four Jesus Camp listen
we hold the keys
we can change the world this look at a
summer camp for one branch of
Evangelical Christians has been
disturbing viewers around the world
since its initial release seen by many
as a damning portrayal of allegedly
abusive practices at camps like the
featured kids on fire School of ministry
it played a role in getting the camp
shut down father we just washed them
with the water of your word we say no
more devil no more the camp Pastor Becky
Fisher was forced to close the retreat
due to backlash but it's arguably a
credit to the directors that you can't
necessarily tell where their own
sympathies lie while watching this movie
it's down to the viewer to decide what's
right and what's wrong you could call it
brainwashing but I am radical and
passionate in teaching children about
their responsibility number three dear
Zachary a letter to a son about his
father I called back to the Sunnyvale
Police Station so he gave me another
number and then I got through to
Sergeant Cruella and he said your son is
dead under suspicious circumstances have
you got any idea why he was in the park
a hair Wing watch dear Zachary follows
Kurt Kenny as he makes a movie about
Andrew Bagby his lifelong friend who was
allegedly murdered by his ex Shirley
Jane Turner Turner revealed shortly
after Andrew's death that she was
pregnant with their child but police had
a difficult time pinning the murder on
her I have to tell you that Andrew is
dead are you sure yes ma'am I am I'm
absolutely sure the movie is intended as
an archive of Andrew a widely loved
person by all accounts for his son
Zachary but the project became more
complex the longer it went on and by the
time it was finished it had become a
fully fledged documentary an examination
of loss and grief dear Zachary is as
poignant as it is upsetting this film
was no longer a letter to you
it was now a letter to someone else
number two the Act of Killing
foreign
with subject matter this heavy The Act
of Killing was always going to be a
tough watch in Indonesia filmmaker
Joshua Oppenheimer interviews former
executioners who took part in the
Indonesian mass killings of
1965-66. they reenact the killings in a
variety of genres including westerns and
musicals while Oppenheimer asks them
both about their artistic choices in the
portrayals and about the events
themselves the fun reenactments
juxtaposed with the horrific topics they
portray is extremely disturbing it's not
hard to see why this documentary remains
so controversial
before we continue be sure to subscribe
to our Channel and ring the bell to get
notified about our latest videos you
have the option to be notified for
occasional videos or all of them if
you're on your phone make sure you go
into your settings and switch on
notifications
number one abducted in plain sight she
looked up at me her eyes baby
and I knew that I had found a little
girl
that I was searching for Jan broberg's
story is particularly disturbing when
she was just an adolescent in the 1970s
one of the broberg family's neighbors
Robert Birch told befriended Jen's
parents and inserted himself into their
lives twice Birch told abducted Jan
including taking her to Mexico his
manipulation knew no bounds even after
Jan was brought home the first time her
parents still allowed Birch toll to be
around her even letting him sleep in her
bed I don't think I can ever really
forgive myself for letting that happen
by far the strangest detail is the
recordings Birch told made of aliens to
further increase his influence on Jan
thankfully Jan and her family survived
the long ordeal and I immediately
thought I'd been kidnapped by a UFO
foreign
