what starts out as the Best Day Of isra
sablani's Life
soon turns into a nightmare
while posing for her wedding photos in
beirut's SciFi square a massive
explosion tears the city apart
it's just before 6 pm on August 4th 2020
when an uncontrolled fire breaks out at
one of the hangars at the Port of Beirut
in Lebanon seemingly after welder Sparks
flew while they were fixing a hole in
the wall
nine firefighters and a paramedic are
deployed to the scene but they have no
idea what the true extent of the
disaster is
their initial belief is that the hangar
contains fireworks but when they report
back to the command center the team
tells the fire chief something is amiss
then a gigantic explosion rips through
the foreshore of lebanon's capital city
foreign
the blast killed 218 people an injured
seven thousand more hundreds of
thousands would be left homeless
hanger 12 housed much more than just
fireworks it contained over
2750 tons of Highly explosive ammonium
nitrate at about 607 PM the warehouse
fire started sending plumes of smoke and
soot billowing from the roof of the
building eyewitnesses say it was
followed by a burst of light and showers
of smaller Sparks which looked like
fireworks less than a minute later a
massive blast erupted setting off a
bright ball of Fire
a shock wave moving faster than the
speed of sound tears through downtown
Beirut footage on social media showed a
white Dome engulfing large parts of the
city basically water vapor forced out of
the air by the shock wave
a red Brown Haze of smoke and Ash
followed it
experts would later concur that this
Haze of red Brown smoke was the
strongest indicator of an ammonium
nitrate explosion the Shockwave blew out
windows at the Beirut Airport terminal
about five miles from the port
the blast was so intense that it was
heard as far afield as Cyprus about 125
miles across the Mediterranean
seismologists at the U.S Geological
Survey equated the force to that of a
3.3 magnitude earthquake in fact it was
so powerful that a team from Sheffield
University estimated that the blast was
equal to one thousand to one thousand
five hundred tons of TNT roughly a tenth
of the intensity of the nuclear bomb
which ripped through Hiroshima
structures at the epicenter surrounding
warehouses and grain silos housing about
15 000 tons of grain were flattened
several dark ships were blown out of the
water and damaged by the explosion
including the five-star Orient Queen the
393 foot long passenger Cruiser capsized
due to the force of the blast killing
two crew members it also carved out a
460 foot wide ground crater which
immediately filled with sea water laying
waste To Hangar 12 and most of the ports
critical infrastructure the cataclysmic
explosion with a radius of about 1.85
miles is believed to be one of the
largest non-nuclear blasts recorded to
date the streets of Beirut were visibly
shrouded in Carnage entire building
blocks in nearby neighborhoods and
business districts in the city's North
were leveled including in the nightclub
District uprooted trees overturned
Vehicles collapsed roofs and metal
structures lay buckled and twisted in
the wake of the explosion the powerful
blast resulted in the electricity Supply
being knocked out which dealt another
devastating blow to rescue efforts
according to reports the devastation was
so severe that military bulldozers were
used to clear roads for firefighters in
ambulances but hospitals were
desperately overwhelmed by the blast and
had to turn away injured people due to
the sheer number of wounded according to
the World Health Organization several
hospitals were destroyed by the
explosion and at least 20 other health
care facilities were severely damaged
most injured people were treated for
secondary trauma to the upper
extremities due to shattered glass
St George Hospital located less than a
mile from the blast side had also been
destroyed but was still treating people
on the ruined pavement outside other
damaged medical centers continued
providing care to people in car parks by
flashlight as the human toll of the
explosion escalated even so many more
wounded had to be turned away due to
capacity the blast reportedly damaged
more than 200 000 households it's
believed many of the displays found
shelter through Aid agencies like the
Lebanese Red Cross the hospitality of
fellow Lebanese as well as friends and
family the state however has been widely
criticized for being absent regarding
relief initiatives for disaster victims
protests broke out in the city days
after the explosion condemning the
government's lack of response
The Infernal Blaze for more than seven
hours enveloping the city with a thick
black smoke it filled the air with the
smell of sulfur and burnt rubber caused
by massive amounts of nitrogen oxide
released from the ammonium nitrate
explosion
according to reports the hangar was used
to store jugs of oil kerosene and
hydrochloric acid five miles of fuse on
wooden spools and an estimated 15 Tons
of fireworks The Perfect Storm just
waiting to happen yet despite the highly
flammable inventory the warehouse had
shoddy electrical Works no smoke alarm
and it was not even fitted with a
sprinkler system but a hanger 12 also
housed a dangerous secret
2750 tons of ammonium nitrate which had
been haphazardly stored in bags since
2013. ammonium nitrate is relatively
cheap to purchase
it is commonly used in the agricultural
sector as fertilizer and in the mining
sector as explosives for quarrying
several Terror attacks have used the
chemical including Timothy mcveigh's
1995 Oklahoma City federal building
bombing and the Irish Republican Army's
1990 London bombings
the question on everyone's mind was why
was so much ammonium nitrate stored so
close to the residential suburbs of
Beirut where an estimated 10 000 people
lived a mere mile from the warehouse and
who was to blame for the devastation
well it all started in 2013 when a ship
owned by a Russian businessman made its
way from Georgia to Mozambique docking
at the Beirut Port after more than a
month at Sea LaRosa's Merchant vessel
was carrying 2 750 tons of ammonium
nitrate on board when it docked in
Beirut reportedly due to technical
problems but the ship would never leave
the port again according to the vessel's
former Captain the owner was
experiencing financial difficulties and
had hoped to pick up some cargo at
Lebanon to make some extra money before
headed to Mozambique but the additional
load carried too much weight and the
crew refused to take it on this led to
the ship being unseaworthy and impounded
for unpaid Port duties the owner
abandoned the crew without paying their
salaries or the port duties The Vessel
and its four crew members were forced to
remain on board for 11 months because of
immigration restrictions they were
eventually released on compassionate
grounds in 2014
the explosive cargo was confiscated and
transferred to Hangar 12 or remained
until that fateful day in August 2020 in
the more than six years that the highly
combustible cargo lay dormant and
unsecured in Hangar 12 a flurry of
emails was sent by concerned Port
Authorities to government officials but
nothing was done
the first batch of emails was sent
sometime in 2014 after the ammonium
nitrate was first offloaded the former
director of Customs sent the emails to
an urgent matters judge cautioning
against the dangers of housing the
highly explosive chemical at the port
but he never heard back
according to Al Jazeera news one of the
emails asked the Marine agency to
re-export the cargo immediately due to
the dangers of it being housed in
unsuitable climatic conditions in the
hangar the letter even suggested
authorities sell the chemical load to
the Lebanese explosives company a 2019
report sent to the Lebanese government
on the threats posed by the combustible
cargo reportedly fell on deaf ears
officials ignored the port Authority's
warnings even after security risks were
exposed due to a hole in the wall of
Hangar 12. it since believed that Sparks
from welders fixing this hole led to the
devastating explosion while civilians
were trying to piece together their
lives amid the destruction which is
believed to run in excess of 15 billion
dollars Lebanese authorities arrested
more than 20 port and Customs officials
following the blast president Michel own
prom promised the nation a full and
transparent investigation would take
place but rejected calls for
international assistance with the probe
less than six days after the explosion
the government resigned amid violent
protests calling for transparency and
accountability for the blast judge Fadi
Sawan was appointed to lead the
investigation
still it would prove to be a slow and
frustrating task because all members of
parliament have immunity from any
criminal prosecution by law not a single
top official has ever been prosecuted
successfully for crimes in Lebanon
despite corruption and mismanagement
being Rife
but in December 2021 judge Sawan charged
the interim prime minister Hassan diab
and three former ministers with
negligence over the port explosion in a
nasty turn of events however two
politicians he indicted had him removed
from the probe claiming he was not
impartial Civil Society groups have
since lobbied for immunity to be lifted
so Justice can prevail
with no signs that the local
investigation will move forward a civil
case was filed in the United States in
July 2022 by the Swiss space
organization accountability now they are
seeking 250 million in Damages for the
survivors and hoped to uncover new
evidence to propel the Lebanese probe
forward then in April 2022 Spanish
authorities arrested a 43-year-old
Portuguese man on the instruction of
Interpol and the Lebanese government
Jorge morera was charged with terrorism
and causing the death through the use of
explosives morera is believed to have
ordered the ammonium nitrate while
employed with the Mozambique explosives
Factory a company spokesperson said the
chemical was ordered in 2013 but was
never delivered they were shocked to
hear the explosive material had
languished in a dilapidated Warehouse in
Beirut until the explosion Moreira has
since been released but is not allowed
to leave Spain until his extradition
hearing if found guilty he could face
life imprisonment in January 2023 the
judge responsible for the investigation
issued new charges against eight
officials after the probe had been
stalled for nearly 13 months
he ordered the release of five people
detained shortly after the blast in 2020
including Port officials a welder and a
contractor
as for the bride from the viral video
isra sablani well she also happened to
be a doctor and provided medical
assistance to the injured in her wedding
gown shortly after the blast
a month later the newly married couple
moved to the United States
more than two years after the disaster
the scars of the devastating explosion
remain visible as the Reconstruction of
more than 62 000 residential spaces and
over 20 000 businesses and buildings
destroyed continues at a snail's pace
today a statue made out of broken glass
Twisted steel and other materials from
destroyed homes and buildings stands
eight feet tall in the explosions
epicenter the figure of a woman holding
a sword serves as a reminder of the 218
people killed that day
a broken clock at her feet still shows
608 the exact moment of the explosion
watch this episode next if you found
this video interesting please add a like
and leave a comment if you want to
support the channel
