I want to live till I'm 3,000 years old
I want to be on another planet when I
die I do you think that's realistic I
could spend anywhere between 20 to
$50,000 a year on biohacking here I have
some more supplements how many you know
40 to 60 pills we have signed up for
cryonics when you die when you freeze
yourself yeah the government want you
sick so that you can be controllable
this is anti- organ rejection drug and
it's what like minus 100us 120 today how
will I know if my Skin's burning um
you're going to feel extreme pain all
right I am pooing my
[Applause]
[Music]
pantaloons in this episode of Life
uncovered I'm meeting biohacker Leon
biohackers take a DIY approach to
hacking their own biology in an attempt
to live forever Leon's days are spent
fasting for 22 hours taking huge amounts
of supplements working out and taking
off label prescription pills so I'm
currently in Canary Warf and I'm just
about to meet Leon
biohacking totally interests me I can't
lie it requires a lot of dedication um
and it feels like it could just be a big
waste of time I mean if it's true who
doesn't want to be young forever so I
can totally see the appeal of it my big
question is like is it just all a scam
hello how you doing I'm yeah good nice
to meet you nice to meet you as well
thanks for letting me come yeah of
course show me what it takes to Sure
bioh hat let me uh let me just make you
a Bulletproof Coffee I've heard a lot
about bulletproof coffees but I always
just thought you know what butter and a
coffee yeah know this is my spin on it
this is the green tea powder some
turmeric three different types of
mushrooms yep so why why do this I want
to live forever it's not 180 I want to
live till I'm 3,000 years old I want to
be on another planet when I die do you
think that's realistic definitely you
think you can realistically live forever
the speed of innovation is exponential
at this point every year we're we can't
even keep up anymore what's it taste
like yeah I mean you I I'm getting the
mushrooms for sure yeah yeah very
mushroom I don't think I fully know your
real age compar 36 you're 36 okay so
we're not we're not that different in
age this is my bedroom that's a lot of
oils yeah so these are this for your
face this is no these are to to ingest
how much of an investment is it to have
this level of stuff maybe around 1,000
every 45 to 60 days which is isn't Small
Change it's not some people buy a Gucci
bag I'd like to just keep my health
sleep is by far in a way the best thing
that you can do for your health long
term do you have like a specific
position just for pillow between the
legs to kind of align the spine mean
that's quite comfortable I mean what are
the kind of health benefits of this it's
strictly postural I'll typically just
come out here
my wife and daughter are usually still
sleeping I will do whm Hof breathing I
will show you an example of how I do the
breathing I'll start first and then you
can just kind of jump
in I will tell you it's it is um extreme
ex powerful you can get high from doing
that from all the oxygen this is where I
make my morning coffee so how often are
you fasting then every day except for
the except for Saturday Sunday usually
uh 20 22 hours you know I'll go the
entire day I'll come home eat at 10:
p.m. after the gyms and is that one meal
uh I mean you call it one eating window
are you hungry no not at all it uh you
you get over it all of the supplements
down here basically what I use for you
know when I work out stuff you have your
protein your MCT oil powdered peanut
butter some MinGa powder one of the big
questions isn't it I guess is like is it
all just a money-making scheme I
definitely think that some of it is a
money-making scheme you know people that
know what they're doing like me can
usually avoid you can filter the traps
of that taking the pills is simple you
take them out and you down them and it's
what how many uh between 40 to 60 um and
that does it smells like a pharmacy yeah
it smells bad I'll just I'll put a few
more in there grass-fed beef organs it's
really great I love it isn't the an
argument that your body can only take x
amount of vitamins and it'll just
basically excrete the rest of it yeah
exactly but uh I'm I'm fine with that
happening if part of it is wasted fine
you know there is an argument for some
of these these vitamins that like in
large amounts they do have quite
profound effects do you struggle to
handle the fact that you might die one
day I I would just say that I love my
wife and daughter a lot and I just want
to spend as much time with them as
possible we we have signed up for cionic
as well so cryonics is when you freeze
yourself when you die you're going so
basically suck the blood out of you put
some nitrogen in you freeze you freeze
you it's 120,000 for your full body you
use life insurance okay to fund it so we
take out a million dollars uh on each me
and my wife is it not is it not a bit
weird that this random private company
is going to get a million dollars from
the death of you and your wife with at a
technology that hasn't been proven to
work if you do it you have 50% chance of
it's succeeding right if you don't do it
you have a zero% chance so you're dead
is it relaxing living like this I think
about death a lot I think about all of
these things and it is it can be a bit
exhausting where's the kind of need to
biohack and to live forever conf from my
parents okay yeah my dad uh died at 86
and my mom at 70 my mom from cancer and
uh you know they they didn't trust
doctors you know my mom I felt that her
doctors just didn't do enough to throw
the kitchen sink at it just made me real
bitter in general towards the medical
establishment so
yeah as part of Leon's busy biohacking
routine he takes multiple prescription
pills every day but he doesn't actually
have the conditions the pills are made
for are these prescription prescription
is that legal it is it is it is
completely yeah it's completely so how
are you getting them online pharmacies
legitimate pharmacies in the United
States are you worried about the
prescription drug element of it just in
case no this maybe you take something
you shouldn't and there's a ton of
websites out there I do the research
this is a diabetes drug obviously I
don't have diabetes they've proven
taking this basically reduces all cause
mortality this is just typical
over-the-counter uh allergy medicine
with Loratadine in it Loratadine is one
of the ingredients that can block a
particular cancer Pathway to dofil it's
for your sex uh sex drive but the the
the real benefit of this is again that
it lowers your blood pressure this is a
little bit more controversial this is an
anti- organ rejection drug there is an
anti-aging off Lael use for this so I
take six tablets of this on Sunday
evenings it's some pretty pretty
hardcore stuff isn't it yeah an anti-
organ rejection diabetes are you sure
that like the amalgamation of all of
them together isn't having kind of yeah
there's problematic I'm open with my GP
about it I tell her and she advises me
why aren't the drug companies themselves
saying look you can you know reduce your
chance of cancer by taking this or why
is Big farmer not saying we can make
millions for this because they can't
make billions if you can make millions
you want to make billions they want to
make trillions big Pharma is not here to
help
you so I've just stepped outside of
Leon's house for a second and it is a
bit wild that he's just popping random
prescription pills that cannot be good
for you um and obviously the big
question is like is it worth it is he
now younger as a consequence of doing
these things that's what I want to know
and yeah I'm going to go back inside now
go to the gym with him can you lead me
through a crash course workout yeah I'll
take a 20 there we
go and what time you usually hit in the
gym around 8 800 p.m. so it's the last
thing you do just before you eat exactly
exactly in the future my house is going
to be completely biohacked out I'm going
to have
the gym the pool the steam room and SAA
I'll have a hyperbaric oxygen tank I
have a cryotherapy tank so how much do
you think You' need to set aside to have
a fully biohacked house probably a few
million I'll have a reverse osmosis
water system on my uh on my water tank
so that I'm not bathing in in water that
has fluoride and chemicals in it
government's trying to kill you with but
are you saying that they are consciously
trying to kill people or they're trying
to make people sick if people aren't
sick you don't make money so the
government is absolutely not happy about
people being healthy they want you sick
so that you can be controllable who is
it who's calling these shots the cabal
the michis the Rockefellers the
Rothchilds what has like a coordinated
eff 100% and how would that never make
it out to the outside world it is in the
outside world but you got to realize
there's a class of people out there that
want to be controlled cuz the idea that
there's like a cabal running the world m
that's trying to kill us with fluoride
now water is very qon on that's like a
kind of q q kind of I think most
biohackers are
just they they think it's important to
be able to control their own
outcomes rather than to bury their heads
in the
sand so I've just come out of his place
and and it feels like the kind of
biohacking world is a place that has
quite a lot of people who are quite
distrusting of mainstream medicine so
tomorrow I'm going to see another
element of his world he's getting some
kind of facial then we're going to a
cryogenic lab um to be frozen I've never
done that before I'm a little bit you
know worried about
it how you do how you doing man good to
see looking beautiful oh yeah thank you
yeah know I just just came from a hydro
facial you look you're glowing
absolutely glowing so what what's
happening today so I know we've got a
whole day of treatments us yeah so we're
going to go to uh my favorite biohacking
Clinic it's called human so there's
actually something called a biohacking
clinic that's like a thing yeah yeah
that's what that's what we call it I'm
intrigued I'm excited excited nervous
should we all right head off let's head
off let's
go hey great Le good to see you how are
you pleasure to meet you Ben nice to
meet you call you doct e please that
sounds like something from a Sci-Fi
doesn't it well I think we are it does
feel like we're in a Sci-Fi yet is this
a place so if I wanted to live forever
would this be a place I come to is that
like a realistic ambition living
stronger for longer is one of our manes
should we uh check out some of the other
therapist sure why the hell not shall we
do ozone therapy yeah go for it so
what's going on here then ozone is three
particles of oxygen o03 ozone therapy is
delivery of ozone mixing it with his
blood and putting that back into his
system increases the levels of
antioxidants so is this now going back
into his blood yeah correct yeah yeah
what what of the more unexpected
elements of it for me is the kind of use
of the part the kind of prescription
drugs for off label purposes what do you
think of that I don't use the
medication
myself uh for my patients would you
recommend it to a client um we're not
currently I guess there is a worry that
maybe having a lot of that drug over a
long period of time could have uning
consequences yeah I mean consequences
will come if they're going to come and
they won't if they're not so only time
will tell this is our cryotherapy Suite
we're going to get you started in a in a
second is there an advantage over this
to just have a nice bath absolutely yes
because your head goes in as well so um
and you go to a lower temperature and
it's what like
minus- 120 today stay in for how long
like 3 minutes 3 minutes okay why 3
minutes three the door is not locked
because after that you will get burn
your your skin will burn yeah from the
cold from the cold okay how will I know
if my skin is
burning um you're going to feel extreme
pain all
right so we've got some kit for you here
so gloves socks thermal socks under your
knees air boots I'm a little bit I'm a
little bit worried no you're fine all
right let's let's fire it up I am pooing
my
pantaloons this is going to be
terrifying it's like a portal to another
horrible Universe isn't it should we
start yeah right we'll start from there
you see the clock there yeah
okay nice deep breaths you're going to
see him disappear nice control
breathing oh my God he just disappeared
he looks like he's absolutely freezing
he nice control breathing is good
yeah well done brother any words of
advice get outside your mind oh God oh
God okay you ready
let's go no but I'll do it you're up
brother good
luck nice deep breathing you got
this okay Ben you're entering the last
60 seconds you really well nice control
breathing control your biology
lift yourk
down that is pretty chilly that is
chilly I can't Li you feeling good all
good you do smashed it
okay
nice oh God man 110° first time when it
was good I feel good yeah you feel good
I feel alive for sure I can't lie it's a
pretty meditative
experience there you go I'm now going to
live forever that's it despite a long
day at the clinic I was still skeptical
about whether this was really making any
difference it felt like it could all
just be a bit of a waste of time and
money so I had an idea I sent Leon
what's called an epigenetic blood test
the results would be able to tell us the
difference between his real
chronological age and and his biological
age meaning how old his cells are I've
never done one before we're going to see
how old I actually am I took the test as
well so that we could compare the
results I'm trying to figure out how to
hold it biohacker vers non-
biohacker a couple of months later it
was time to meet again but I noticed he
looked a little bit different good to
see you you're significantly Browner
than when I last saw you yeah I uh been
using a peptide and it up regates the
melanin in your skin for for men it like
just really increases I guess the
verality of your sexual function I don't
know what you call it but like by
exactly exactly so that's like one of
the uses and then the tanning is the
other one so you kind of get both
together and it's just so you're taking
it to both increase your sexual appetite
personally I was just curious I had
never taken it before and I wanted to
see what it does I actually I don't like
it you know so much because it was too
powerful you're you're having like these
really uncomfortable moments on the
train stoning erection it's just
ridiculous you know so I'm probably
going to be laying off of it for for a
while I I'm not even doing it anymore
cuz I'm too dark already great I'm I'm
excited today for this yeah me
too Dr E how you doing Dr E pleasure to
see you so you you are a pro biohacker I
am not necessarily A biohacker we're
going to see whose biological age is
younger do you actively yeah think about
this stuff well I spend a lot of time in
the bathroom sticking myself with
needles in a stomach basically what do
you think of that the things that we're
injecting into us we need to be very
very careful about there could be side
effects and that's a risk that you're
kind of consciously taking you know I
genuinely as a doctor who came into this
space to make things better it concerns
me is it worth it cuz ultimately you're
doing it cuz you want a long life aren't
you so what if what if the consequence
is the exact opposite I mean at the end
of the day like I could walk out of here
and get hit by a bus or I could just not
do anything and live as long as I would
or I I would say that there's a lot of
people that don't do any research I do
as much as possible all right I'll let
you guys choose for
yourself okay you go first okay there we
go moment two
trat
wow I can't even find the page to I'm 20
no
wait I'm also
20 what the so technically that means
that I won because I'm older than you my
biological age is 12 years younger yours
is 16 years younger wow amazing what oh
perfect but Ben is impressive you put up
a good fight know right fair enough I'll
take it impressive because he's not a
biohacker so that means his genetics are
really good is the effort worth four
years of biological aging maybe for Leon
if he didn't do this these all these
things where would he that's the
question to ask right it's hard to know
um for sure what did you make of Dr E's
kind of final I suppose subtle warning
of don't take too many things kind have
a negative I agree I agree and and I'm
very careful I'm not mixing my own
testosterone on my stove at home I'm I'm
as safe as you can be as a pedestrian in
the space basically so okay so I might
have sadly lost the biological boxing
match but I take victory in the fact
that you know I don't spend hours doing
this I haven't spent thousands of pounds
and I think in reality this journey
hasn't made me want to do what Leon does
he's taking a lot of risks and I
understand why he's doing it he wants to
live for a long time he wants to be
there for his family and I think he's a
nice guy I understand why Leon wants to
live longer in truth so do I but a lot
of what he's doing is unregulated and
risky and with so much of his life
consumed by prolonging the future is he
really living right
[Music]
now
