that's a half Grand of MTH yeah I don't
smoke crack I shoot crack just got out
the hospital actually yesterday why you
in hospital over four I was in they call
it going around heart I got a irregular
heartbeat now so now I'm going to be on
a couple different medications for the
rest of my life I made a lot of money
off Bitcoin had a half a million dollar
home in East lanon actually lost it all
a few years ago how uh just getting high
Detroit Michigan renowned for its motor
industry and a rich history of
cultivating world class music artist
Harbor is a lesser known and darker side
in America overdose rates are reaching
unprecedented levels with fental merging
as the increasingly prevalent drug of
choice shockingly one in five house in
Detroit currently stands vacant and
abandoned curious about the situation I
ventured into these forsaken homes to
Witnesses the impact firsthand join me
in uncovering the real Detroit where the
glitz gives way to a start reality this
is more than just a look at the Decay
structures it's a glimpse into the lies
behind them revealing to a side of
Detroit that's been kept in the shadows
how D you Side Detroit this basically
there's a shooting every weekend you
don't have connections there it's not
where you want to be part of the Detroit
culture like in the slums is racing cars
so in order to prevent that they put
huge speed bumps and then you'll see
gaggles again that's the stuff you got
to avoid just lock your door and keep
going I had s mes many dous yeah this 7
Mile right here you
[Music]
[Applause]
see
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
so basically they're all the drug
infested houses in Detroit man it is raw
it's not good being here all these yards
people are pretty much even in all of
them if you want to see this documentary
raar UNC and exclusive interviews join
my patreon for a little less $2.99 a
month this my guy tattoo man ni me tto
where's your family at this moment in
time my daughter lives a half mile that
way and my dad lives a half mile that
way me and my kid just got into it like
2 months ago so you not Beed any of your
family no more and how much would you
spend getting daily a couple years ago 2
300 a day now only like maybe $30 if I'm
lucky and you sleep in here is this your
living condition no my living condition
is not much better than this but at
least it's clean this is a condo
compared to where he's stand oh really
where I'm in a don't get me wrong I got
a nice little rug set up barbecue when
so many people come through your spot
and they don't give a about you they're
going to steal and take what they want
what's an average day in your life
yes I've already walk like s miles you
walk seven miles at
least walk my my
bed so I really hope your situation
changes you know it is what it is I made
it this way I can un Make it that's all
it really is to it we're going to check
out all the drunking fested slums all
around Detroit and speak to as many
people as we can and see what it's like
living
[Music]
am where you from London London yeah oh
 I mov down here probably like 6 to
8 years ago I got in trouble with the
courts and they wanted to charge me
a bunch of money and I didn't have it to
pay it so I moved back out here with my
girl we got into prostitution she was
prostituting I was prostituting how was
you prostituting People You Meet like
this like you meet people and people
like make you w first women and guys
made you make that decision cuz that's
not an easy decision to make my girl was
doing it so how did you feel about that
when we first started I wasn't like mad
because all our friends were doing it
just being around people that are
prostitute in 24/7 eventually that's
kind of what you end up doing too she
actually passed away like 2 years ago s
since then I've been on my own I tried
to get on my feet a couple of times when
I got out of rehab they wouldn't let me
come back I started using dope again cuz
I couldn't get on my sub boxing I ended
up right back out here
[Music]
homeless my girl actually wrote all this
she just got locked up my Thursday she
wrote All That see our names right there
Dove and Sarah what did she get for
violation of family probation she didn't
report I just got out I just did 8
months I got out in June what did you do
8 months bro they tried to convict me on
some robbery but I beat it most
life like living like this bro what do
you mean living like this how do you
mean like I guess cuz this isn't isn't
the normal way I've Liv in I guess like
in a in a house no my room's right there
I got a room and food and clothes and
I use but I also too yeah how bad is
your addiction I just started using
about 3 years ago I got put in a coma
for 3 months and I woke up I was
supposed to be on bed rest for a year
they had fire bomb my house lacerating
my kidneys perforated my pancreas
ruptured my spleen collapsed both my
lungs broke all eight ribs I was up
started using cuz of that what your
family do this is my family I got them
and I got my
girl
have you ended up I guess in this
situation yes my family was not
supportive just pushed me towards drugs
and how long have you been using I not
like 18 years 18 years yeah have you got
any children I have 18-year-old son he's
with his dad do you have any
communication with them no not really
and what did you do before it was um an
assistant manager at Claire's at the
mall how' you go from that situation to
this struggles of
the I
like I like that cost for what you're
doing $10 like a half gr probably is
that a lot no not at all that's a half
gram of yeah so what you doing at the
moment you're trying to basically just
find a vein yeah once you find a vein
and that goes in what what feeling will
you be feeling you're going to get real
hot in your chest like a lot of energy
average user that use it every day stays
up for anywhere from 3 to 9 days at a
time I slept for one day in the last 11
days that probably healthy I look
healthy don't I chunk of time I get like
36 hours of sleep in a month I don't
smoke crack a shoot crack like a shoot
mask people smoke Mas is that not hurt
not really you get used to it I
sometimes it experience change
perception look last time I shot up I
stuck myself 73 times before I got a
vein cuz your veins disc skirt this you
get so thick and then the meth be
tearing your veins up so you can't get a
vein 73 times it looked like I just
committed a horrific murder I was Bloody
everywhere are you friends because of
meth no bro it's a community really is
this whole area just pretty much drugs
yeah yeah this is the widest open air
drug Market in Detroit is there much
police around here at all yeah I was
just in a raid two weeks ago they took
our money took our drugs told us I out
and that's it that's it they come up in
here they find a bunch of dop as long as
they don't find guns it's St it's called
a green ticket like other places you get
arrested and taken to jail and charged
with that possession here you still get
charge with possession and all that
stuff but it's a ticket my girl right
there you there no I
oh that's my girl that's the one that's
locked up you would never think no you
wouldn't well I hope everyone's
situation gets better M it's a pleasure
to meet you all yeah you too maybe we
going to come out to London and film
yall yeah come
bro how are you bro I'm doing all right
how you doing Aaron pleasure to meet you
I'm Zach what's your current situation
at the moment past couple months have
been kind of rough just got up her
congratulations man thank you and how
have you ended up in in the situation
you're in Z oh I was a pretty heavy
heroin at it for a bit but I was working
constantly since my brother died I think
something's gone a little bit wrong in
my head how did he pass away I'm sorry
to hear his passed away he died from an
overdose it was intentional heart attack
at 30 then how did you get involved in
that life I started when I was 14 pills
and like that it's kind of gone
from there and you you could ever just
go back home no no my stepdad's not a
fan of me my mom would take me in no
problem why is not a fan is there a
reason for that he an abusive person so
I kind of fought back he'd hit us with
the belt and like that across the
face belt buckles like that if you
couldn't be doing anything job wise what
would you allow to be doing I mean if I
were to completely achieve my goals I'd
be a chemist again I was a street
chemist but I was going to school for
chemistry I wanted to go into an actual
lab pharmaceutical
biochemistry that's insane obviously in
a good way yeah yeah and you enjoy
living in Detroit no no it's like a kid
in a candy store
it's not exactly a great place you hear
gunshots going off all the time that's
just kind of normal around here what
about ex-girlfriends have you had many
relationships I've had a few I mean
they're good people and all it's just I
got too much going on myself I
can't involve myself with what they got
going
[Music]
on you got to make it seem like ain't
nobody here that's how you get your
money bullet poo glass so when they come
by it's been shot up play time you know
what I'm saying you see this look
[Music]
chips there's a lot of beef in
competition these guys burn these houses
up they burn their houses up and
eventually stuck with nothing check this
out all field there's nowhere for the
kids to play look they buil their own
parks and like
that
man this owe me money man I ain't going
to get Reckless with him because I got
you all with me man hey up yeah come
here he try to come to another Hood like
I ain't going to see you man yeah come
on before you
get huh man you ain't been trying to
catch me you know where I'm been
at man I seen cookie bro you can't hide
bro I need my money why you cut the card
off bro I didn't cut nothing off I
didn't cut nothing off I've been in the
hospital bro you out the hospital bro so
that mean you should have like 14400 on
there then yeah so that mean you would
have been came and see me my sick man I
don't give a you out here you ain't
that sick you playing with me man like
I'm a kid or something then you get over
then yeah you playing too many games man
I never play a game so why you ain't
came down there and see me you know
exactly where I'm at n pocket let me see
I have a car Y how the hell going have a
car so you ain't got no money man why
you playing man like come on man empty
the pockets
bro me
down I am let
my so I'm about to take y little place
this where they just sit and get high
you know what I
mean we're about to meet some addicts in
seven
mile let's see what they're
[Music]
saying go I'm right back at it you see
where I'm at you know what I mean but
you guys PR full press pills I press ad
all and Sh like that I was getting them
like thousands at a time you know after
the dark web 50 cents a pop this
probably ain't nothing like you used to
over in London huh like we got guns
everywhere can y'all even have guns and
stuff over there n what's your situation
I'm homeless I'm just working I but I I
don't steal enough and I do work and
house working for people are you
addicted at the moment yeah I'm addicted
to boy and girl well would be boy and
girl cuz in London we we wouldn't know
what boy boy would be here one girl
would be cocaine you see a way back back
to I guess normal society this is normal
for me you know what I mean when I go
out out there it ain't the same you know
what I mean was doing real well for a
long time I relapsed about 3 months ago
just got out the hospital actually
yesterday what you in hospital four is
Wasing they call it going around heart I
got an irregular heartbeat now so now
I'm going to be on a couple different
medications for the rest of my life so
you shoot it up minute 30 you're out and
then you are going to sleep hope you
wake up that should be killing people
because put it in the heroin now so to
make you think that you got good
and you just fall out death is pretty
cheap is checks and your people just
think you're not at out they'll start
making a
noise that's when you know to hit them
with a s this is how you know we try to
keep all our papers and safe we got
boxes in our C these are invented
machines now for $50 $600 right there
yeah we tried passing them out and make
sure
everybodyy like Naran won't touch it
yeah you need like 10 of these and you
still need medical is that new then
zyline yeah that just started happening
there's certain boy I won't even touch
like I only go through a couple people
like people that I trust what I used to
know and do as heroin doesn't exist any
longer yeah real don't exist no more
that's all I it don't exist man I had
everything up until 3 months ago man
nice house nice cars I got a female come
in my life she was a little thief she
destroyed everything for
me where did your family my family's all
in the South my mom and sister they're
in South Carolina us to guide they would
let me come down there and shck start
over I got nobody else here just me just
 from nowhere and I never been
in this position my
whole I've always been on top of it and
how long have you lived here I ain't
living anywhere recently I just got my
car taken with everything I own that
girl driving the car guns in the car I'm
going to treatment in a couple days
life's going to be different again buddy
bro and I hope your situation changes
man I hope so too it's got to I'm going
die out here thank you both for your
time man yeah nice to meet you man nice
to meet
[Music]
you what's the benefit doing that that's
dolphine
swag me difficult but it's better than
being outside you make home where you
where you go and have you ended up here
before bouncing from place to place my
family it's difficult to help when the
person wants to be where he is I don't
want to torture them and I ain't going
to lie to myself either and until I'm
ready then I'm just going to be here I
make the most of obviously you live
normal life initially then how you go
I'm not to
this
relationship I was engaged and married
what happened looking for a working girl
cuz I wasn't getting it at home for one
thing tell me bro sounds crazy sound
crazy but it happens more often than
people think so you went to your working
girl and then what happened she
was we call it apparatus I'm like I
wanted to try it she told me no four
times but I thought I was different than
everybody else but I ain't no different
and that change everything
[Music]
M fre you got to get up man what's up
what you need get up baby you got to get
up F this one of my other uh close
friends position right now but but good
PE looked out for me man plenty of time
how have you ended up in the situation
that you're in my parents is addict what
age was you did you get addicted I
started smoking crap at 15 I swear I'd
never do heroin you know we all do that
though why at the age of 15 did you
start smoking crack it was just always
around just it was the life where are
your parents now my mom she's actually
doing a she's got a boyfriend my dad's
in prison what for um manufacturing and
delivering me phines
allegedly do you see a away at your
situation bre of course I just got to
really want it would you say you don't
want it at the moment no not really
what's an average day in your life at
the moment I got you know sugar daddies
I guess I'd say to take care of me stuff
you know sugar daddies yeah an average
day for me is you know wake up SI get
right go and get some money how would
you mind money I go out on dates I'm not
like all these girls right here I don't
walk the street I don't think I'm better
than them in any way shape or form cuz
we all do the same but you know I
don't really walk the streets I got my
phone and you know I'll call some of my
guys so cash sa me money or you know
come pick me up we'll go get breakfast
and how much would you charge if you
don't want me asking I don't do anything
under 100 but sometimes 60 80 bucks but
you know a lot of these girls out here
they doing a shit10
[Music]
$20 my daddy he loves me he never wanted
to see me like this he had a problem too
though his prob was mad he was always
like this he had a business he had his
own roofing company but he was taking
anal real bad at the time you know an
adal is expensive and that's how a lot
of these people out here start is
prescription pills whether it's Naros
pain pills that lead you to heroin or
adal that leads you Coke and a math you
know we all find our way I guess someone
could help you how can I help you I
recently actually just tried to get
clean I got arrested and they sent me to
rehab and I had burned a lot of my
bridges the biggest problem like why I
couldn't stick it out this time is I had
no support system I've got siblings that
are doing well but they got thr own
lives going on and everything you know
if I could have had somebody just like
to talk to and to be real to cuz in the
rehab if I if I said like hey I want to
use today I always risk them sending me
back to jail so I felt like I couldn't
be real you know I hope your situation
changes man and I I'll really wish you
all the best thank you it will I could
be like this forever I was actually
dealing stuff I was a vendor on the dark
web manufacturing Xanax legend
legend I made a lot of money off Bitcoin
had a half million dollar home in East
Lon actually lost it all a few years ago
have uh just getting high started
partying like with like lean perco set
Xanax got too expensive you see aware at
the situation you must have some about
you if if you made that kind of money
yeah I mean i' I've made it out I've
quit before and got got in the house
started doing good again and then I
relapsed where's your family my mom
lives in leavon so is my dad they're
divorced I got a brother that lives in
Southfield he's doing really good where'
you reckon you be in the next 5 years
back in a nice house making
[Music]
money
