on the 6th of March 1945 American tanks
from the famous third Armored Division
fought their way into the heart of the
German city of Cologne
desperately trying to repel the American
advance and hold the vital bridge over
the river Rhine were the last few tanks
of the once formidable 106th Panzer
Brigade
What followed was a unique chapter in
the second world war captured in real
time by combat cameramen on the ground
in this video we'll use the latest
technology and wartime footage to follow
the Epic action that is today known as
the cologne tank Jewel
by March 1945 the Western Front looked
something like this with the Germans
being pushed back towards the mighty
Rhine all along the front including just
here in Cologne
Shattered by Allied bombers it was a
shadow of its former self but
nevertheless as Germany's fourth largest
city still represented an important
Allied objective
let's wind the clock back to 1945 and
blend the wartime aerial over the modern
satellite image to see the city as it
was then
one key location is the impressive
Cologne Cathedral which even today
dominates the Metropolitan City Center
and conveniently for us serves as both
an orientation point and the American
objective in the fight
it was in the shadow of this Cathedral
that the famous tank Jewel would take
place
but to get there we need to move
westwards and back in time a little
by early March U.S forces of the
legendary spearhead division found
themselves here on the outskirts of
cologne having fought non-stop since
Normandy
leading the advance into the city were
the tanks of Colonel Leander Downs task
force x some 45 in total but in this
video we'll follow just two
this Sherman 76 commanded by 26 year old
Wisconsin native Lieutenant Carl Kellner
and Eagle seven a brand new Pershing
tank commanded by Sergeant Bob early
the Pershing in particular was important
weighing 46 tons with 100 millimeters of
frontal armor and a powerful 90
millimeter gun the five-man tank was a
big step up from the far more common
Sherman albeit a largely untested one in
action all that would soon change
but just why is this action unique in
second world war history well it's
thanks to these guys a group of
journalists photographers and combat
cameramen who were embedded within the
leading elements as they Advanced
meticulously capturing still images and
footage along the way foremost amongst
the most staff sergeant Jimmy Bates Leon
Rosamond and Fred ramage who armed only
with cameras ran all the same risks as
their armored comrades
so what exactly were the Americans
facing in truth it's hard to be precise
it was a chaotic time for the German
Army but we do know that remnants of the
badly Mall 363rd Volks Grenadier
division were in place in the area we
also know that at least three German
tanks from Panzer Brigade 106 were in
the vicinity on the far side of the rail
bridge and were to be thrown into the
fight last minute in the attempt to stem
the advancing American tide
the plan of attack was something like
this units would push in on each flank
of the city sealing off any Escape North
or South whilst at the same time a
central column led by the tanks of enf
companies of a 30-second armored
regiment would attack from the Northwest
driving into the Heart of the City to
capture the cathedral and hopefully the
vital hohen zollin Bridge Over the Rhine
our route in this video will follow this
Central advance
let's get straight down to the ground to
the Village of pulheim to pick up the
story
we know that the Americans were here
thanks to at least a few landmarks still
standing in the area which can be traced
today
it was here at about 10 a.m on the 5th
of March that cameraman Jim Bates
captured footage of the American column
advancing down this road at this time
all the tanks of task force x revising
down the same route and met Little
Resistance until they reached cologne
suburbs it was here that the Infantry
came into their own advancing with the
armor their role was to clear houses
along their route of Advance it was a
tough job requiring GIS on the ground
with plenty of guts to be first in the
door by mid-afternoon on the 5th of
March The Wider part of the venlor
Strasser a road leading directly to the
city center was reached
this exact location we can identify on
film today is it allows us a unique
opportunity to follow these leading
tanks
here we see the early's eagle 7 was
firing towards the old Cemetery as they
continue to clear a path eastwards
by the end of the day the westernmost
suburbs were cleared and those famous
twin spiers of the cathedral were
finally in sight albeit some way off
it's likely that U.S forces held here
for the night regrouping and rearming
for the much Sterner test that was to
follow
on the other side of the city the
Germans too were preparing late in the
evening a Panzer Mark IV arrived from
Southwest Germany at the Eastern Bank of
the Rhine after a hellish Journey under
continual Air Attack 18 year old Gunner
Gustav Schaefer was glad just to be
alive only to learn that the following
morning he was to advance directly into
cologne
let's take a moment to understand the
situation on the morning of the 6th of
March it's likely at this time that the
single group split and took two separate
but parallel routes into the city one a
group of four Shermans led by eagle 7
taking the suburata Strasser and a
second group including kelner's 76 and a
75 millimeter armed Sherman continuing
along the vinlo estrasse the aim being
for both groups to converge on the
Square in which the cathedral stood
it seems that the camera team split two
with Jim Bates and Liam rosaman
following the group led by early's
Pershing and another team including
Clarence garrel and Fred ramage
following the pair of Shermans along the
second route
only a few roads apart the tanks would
remain in radio contact throughout
let's return to Young Gustav's Schaefer
shortly before 10 AM he recalled
receiving the order to advance and
describes what happened next
we drove three tanks right over the one
Solon Bridge into the city once there
two tanks were immediately directed to
the Central Station when we had crossed
the bridge and the other two drove to
the Central Station an officer told us
to drive further into the city we then
ran for the restaurants passing the
cathedral until we came to an
intersection
now we know that by 10 am on the 6th at
least three tanks a mark IV and likely
two Panthers Advanced into the ruins of
cologne commanding one of the Panthers
that day was Oberlin Wilhelm Battleboro
an experienced tank commander holding
the Iron Cross first and second class he
was to take up position as per orders of
course unknown to the advancing
Americans in a tunnel just north east of
the cathedral
returning now though to the Pershing
group accompanied by cameraman Bates
they also Advanced directly towards the
mark IV commanded by Ober Felder Rolf
militzer with Schaefer at the Gun Site
the nerves were incredible on both sides
as the two tanks cautiously close
distance slowly feeling their way
through the rubble-filled streets a
civilian vehicle driven by a local
grocer Michael delling with his employee
27 year old Katarina Esser in the
passenger seat came racing into view
apparently trying to escape the
approaching firefight in the almost
deserted City they unknowingly drove
straight between earlys and militar's
tanks with tragic results
tents with nerves and unsure who
occupied the car both Clarence smoyer
the gunner in the Pershing and Schaefer
in the mark IV opened up riddled by
Machine Gun fire the opal slew to a stop
with delling dead at the wheel and young
Katarina Esser mortally wounded beside
him
as is often the case in the fog of War
civilians find themselves caught in the
crossfire
no one else in Cologne that day would
have been shaken by an enormous
explosion moments later as the Holden
zolan rail Bridge the last possible
Lifeline for the German armor in Cologne
was blown up by German pioneers
there was now no way out it would be a
fight to the end
with each tank now alerted to the
presence of the other by Trace of fire
smoya caught sight of the mark IV as it
hastily reversed behind a building
now out of sight for its location known
smoya decided on a new course of action
and repeatedly slammed armor-piercing
rounds into the five-story building
directly in front of the enemy tank the
resulting debris which collapsed onto
the Panzer blocked its turret from
rotating
surrounded outgunned and demoralized by
the blowing of the bridge and the damage
to their tank sergeant militar and
Gustav Schaefer had finally had enough
they exited the tank running down this
road and into a side street before
taking shelter in a nearby Hotel
basement apparently determined to fight
on the remaining three crews stayed in
the damage tank and from here disappear
from the pages of History
with the path now clear the Pershing
cautiously began to advance towards the
cathedral with infantry and Camera team
in tow
by shortly after midday we've left the
left Advance at least clear for some
distance with the Pershing leading of
firing as it moved on the right though
things were so far were looking quieter
both counters and the accompanying
Sherman working as a pair had reached
about this point identifiable clearly
today by the remains of this Roman Tower
by matching our on-the-ground view with
the footage of that day we can see the
same point and the way in which the
tanks advanced
all seem to go well until emerging onto
this street just a few hundred meters
from the foot of the cathedral a series
of destroyed buildings blocked any
further Advance watching on with his
camera in hand was Clarence garrel and
British photographer Fred ramage
having called in a specialist Sherman
bulldozer to clear the route the crews
were waiting with girl slightly to the
left rear of the second Sherman
now pointed his camera directly down the
street at a darker area amongst the
rubble he wasn't to know it but hidden
here in the railway tunnel was
BattleBots Panther seconds later a 75
millimeter armor-piercing shell slammed
into the gunshield of kelner's Sherman
tearing through its armor and probably
killing driver Julian Patrick an
assistant Gunner Curtis spear outright
about seven seconds later a second shell
hit the Sherman and as Geral continued
to film Lieutenant Kellner and Corporal
John Gia Luca emerged from the smoking
turret with kellner's left leg clearly
having been lost in the explosion
Gravely wounded Kelner made it just a
few yards behind the tank before
collapsing
tragically he would die a short time
later and is today buried in his
hometown of Sheboygan Wisconsin he was
just 26 years old
shocked by what they'd seen and unaware
of the enemy Tank's location the crew of
the second Sherman began to reverse to
cover behind a rubble pile when it too
was hit this time in the right track by
the concealed Panther with its crew
abandoning though powerfully rather than
fleeing the area several crew members
ran to the aid of Kelner the moment
being captured by Fred ramage's
photograph which later appeared in Life
Magazine
in the space of less than a minute two
Shermans have been knocked out by an
unseen Foe and three men had lost their
lives
but where exactly was this enemy tank
today we know from a letter written by
battleborth himself that the panther had
taken up position beneath this bridge
close to the railway station and it was
from here that they had spotted and hit
the two Shermans taking the distance
from the known points and the visibility
along the street which by the way is
much wider today than it was in 1945. we
can calculate that the shots were fired
from this exact location at a distance
of some 340 meters
we know from Clarence smoyer that a few
minutes later f company's Commander
contacted the commander of e-company who
in turn contacted early informing him of
what happened and asking him to go down
and take out that tank
now aware of the very present danger
somewhere along his route of Advance
early decided to get a better look from
something like safety before risking his
tank
entering this building through these
lower Windows he climbed the stairway to
a mezzanine along with Jim Bates
in the meantime the panther had finally
broken cover and moved forward some 100
meters to take up a new position right
here
covering three lines of approach to the
cathedral to the left Center and right
it could command the area but was also
now far more exposed
electing to face its strong frontal
armor directly forwards towards the
knocked out Sherman battleboreth seems
at that time to have been unaware that
the powerful Pershing was actually much
closer and off to his right
let's take a moment to understand the
situation at this critical time so Bates
and his camera along with early have
climbed one set of stairs to get a view
out of a window on the end of this
building
the Pershing minus its Commander for the
moment is stationary here and a few
meters to the rear and filming up the
street is rosenmann the panther itself
facing towards the two knocked out
Shermans is approximately here
it was just after 2 p.m when Bates
photographer Jim Hines and early reached
this window and standing well back into
the room to avoid being seen spotted the
panther side on some 120 meters away
Bates later recalled his conversation
with early
he told me to stay there and he would
come back in his tank and try to put the
German tank out of commission and I
could photograph it he had one of the
new M26 pershings with the 90 millimeter
gun
Sergeant early said he would turn into
the square under me stop and fire at the
German tank
returning to Eagle 7 and briefing the
crew as to what they should expect they
fired up the 500 horsepower Ford V8 and
began to advance smoya a well-trusted
member of the crew have been told not to
wait for an order but to fire as soon as
he got a shot hoping at this range that
the pershing's powerful gun would knock
out the panther with a single shot
inside the panther Bartel Booth faced
with three possible routes of Advance
made a decision ordering his Gunner to
Traverse to the right possibly having
heard the engine of the approaching
Pershing life and death for both Crews
was now down to a matter of only
milliseconds
as the range closed and the Pershing
cleared the corner building Bates having
moved up one floor to get a better View
and with rosaman in the street began to
roll
hesitation was the deciding factor
as Bartel booth and his Gunner peered
through the dust at the first signs of
the emerging Pershing he reportedly
called Don't Shoot
knowing that Schaefer's mark IV was in
the same vicinity and apparently not
recognizing the silhouette of the
Pershing hit the two unseen on the
battlefield he believed it may have been
one of his own tanks
by the time he realized his mistake it
was too late
the Pershing had cleared the corner and
without stopping slammed around from
only 110 meters directly into the side
of the panther
jolted by the explosion and likely in
fear for his own safety Bates a ducked
at the moment of firing and missed the
first impact but rosaman to the rear
filmed the Pershing shot
Bates rose again just a few seconds
later capturing the second round
smashing into the Panther's side armor
and kept filming as smoke began to
billow out
knowing that further rounds were surely
coming battleboard was already
abandoning his tank with his crew
following after
the famous cologne tank Jewel was over
but what became of This Crew captured on
film as they fled their burning tank
a detailed look at Bates 16 second film
clip slowed down and stabilized when
combined with the outstanding work of
German historian dick lubker allows us
to try and piece together the sequence
of events
the first clear frames in the bass
sequence show the turret Cooper hatch
opened and a crewman presumably barter
both himself standing up we also see the
impact hole of the first shell on the
Panther's side
for the next four seconds the tank
commander struggles to roll onto the
Panther's front deck before dropping to
the ground
the next frame show the tank commander
running for cover and the radio
operators still emerging from his hatch
at the front right of the tank and also
diving off the front deck
as he disappears The Gunner begins to
emerge from the same cupola hatch which
the commander exited
finally the driver emerges from his
hatch at the front left about the same
time as smoya's second round strikes the
tank very likely killing the Gunner who
is yet to exit
over the total sequence we see four of
the five-man crew in view with surviving
records suggesting that battleborth
driver kernig and one other man were
late and taken prisoner a fourth Unknown
man died of his wound after escaping the
tank and a fifth was likely killed in
action
Bates footage is truly powerful it was
then and it is now
a snapshot of a moment in time which
affected all of those concern for the
rest of their lives
Clarence smoyer was no different
he reflected years later
I never went to that tank and looked
inside but they told me all of the crew
perished there I thought about it many
many times when we were firing I don't
remember seeing them getting out it
always did bother me that they all had
to die I'm happy that some of them did
survive very happy
immediately following those actions the
Pershing reversed stopping outside this
building some 100 meters away
leaving their position in the upstairs
window Bates and rosenman emerged onto
the street to join them it was here that
this famous scene was captured showing
the crew of Eagle 7. no doubt simply
glad to be alive
the battle for cologne was over
Bob early Clarence smoyer and the men of
third armored eventually went home as
did Gustav Schaefer Wilhelm bartelborth
many of their comrades didn't
smoya himself never forgot that day at
the Cathedral and returned several times
after the war to visit the spot from
where he fired those famous shots
on one trip in 2013 he met Gustav
Schaefer whom he had last seen through
his Gun Site 68 years before
they got on well and left his friends
so that brings us to the end of this
short video we hope you enjoyed it and
want to send special thanks to diet
lupka whose Research into this subject's
been vital and piecing this incredible
action together
