welcome to Everglades National Park my
name is Ryan Meyer I've been a ranger
here for about two years and this is an
amazing place
it's a vast vast place as well a
wilderness that encompasses a million
and a half acres as you can see a
glimpse of that wilderness right here
where where I'm standing at a place
called Royal Palm the place during the
winter months especially from roughly
November to April you can see dozens of
alligators you can see wading birds fish
turtles an incredibly diverse array of
wildlife in one small area as you drive
down the main Park Road you'll see signs
for lots of short easy trails most are
about a half of a mile a piece
the mostar boardwalk trail some very
easy accessible and fun for for the
whole family
one of the best things about coming to
the park through the homestead entrance
or passing by the Ernest Coe Visitors
Center and driving from here all the way
to flamingo is that you can literally
see every habitat type that we have here
in the park right now in the Everglades
and it's just the beginning of February
now but from December all the way
through April Everglades National Parks
hosts an amazing array of migratory
birds especially water birds that come
to the park feeding and even nesting
this time of year when we think a little
bit about how the Everglades works right
now this is the dry season here in
February and so the water levels are low
across the park that concentrates fish
into small areas so if you're going to
raise a new family of hungry chicks
you'd probably rather do when the food
is concentrated rather than when it's
spread out across hundreds of miles of
Everglades so here in the park you'll
you'll see lots of alligators in fact
sometimes even on the way to the park
you're going to see lots of alligators
especially around State Road 41
alligators live primarily in fresh water
I say primarily because of course
wildlife doesn't follow the rules many
times that we set forth for them so
you'll find alligators in brackish water
a little bit salty water sometimes but
the brackish water the salty water is
primarily the domain of the American
crocodile and these creatures live only
here in the very very southern tip of
Florida they are more rare to see than
alligators but you can't see them down
in flamingo the park is home to
to thousands of species and for the most
part we let nature take its course
you know if an animal is getting chased
by another animal about to become dinner
we don't interfere that's nature and all
these animals here in the park even if
they're right next to the trail they're
not tame they're not our pets they're on
their own to find their food and survive
in this landscape the only exceptions
are endangered species we do monitor
closely and at times intervene in the
lives of endangered species but it's
pretty rare I think it's a mostly a
monitoring effort and trying to restore
the habitat that works best for those
endangered species so for example the
Florida panther very very few Florida
panther here in Everglades National Park
scientists tell us maybe around eight
cats that's it now in Big Cypress north
of us there's many more maybe 30 maybe
50 cats in that area so quite a few more
to the north but not many here in the
southern part of the Everglades before
humans arrived this ecosystem what we
call the greater Everglades ecosystem
started around Lake Okeechobee in fact
even a little farther north in the
Kissimmee area just south of Orlando
water fresh water from rain water
percolating into the ground into this
rock in Florida called limestone begins
to flow South goes above ground and even
underground in that limestone that holds
water
and allows water to move through it
incredibly slow one drop of water might
move maybe 300 feet in one 24-hour
period that one drop of water from Lake
Okeechobee might take almost one year to
make it all the way to Florida Bay to
the tip of Florida and into the ocean
that flow of water that river of grass
or that fresh water flow has been
altered now most of the water in fact we
can now say all of the water that flows
from the north is in control of people
we control every drop that flows north
through water control structures gates
canals and much of that water goes
straight out into the ocean as you think
about activities whether it's in your
backyard if you live here or if you are
from across the country or across the
world there's lots and lots of things to
do here in the park I would definitely
check out our website and PS gov forward
slash ever that will give you a lot of
information about what's available to do
here but you can certainly enjoy again
fishing and hiking biking canoeing
wildlife viewing just mean lots and lots
to do here you can also give us a call
three oh five to four to seven seven
zero zero and we have some friendly
folks that will help you kind of sketch
out your trip
you
you
