what happens when you mix uncontrollable
rage
narcissism
I figured I'd just come in kick it with
you off dude since I'm making a big time
and a loose grasp on reality well you
get one of the most trolled locales in
Internet history hi I'm the internet
Anarchist I create weekly YouTube
documentaries and today we'll be diving
into the long and tragic story of chance
Wilkins AKA Cyrax an online personality
whose enormous ego vile Tendencies and
lack of self-awareness brought on a
never-ending wave of criticism and
trolling from everyone on the internet
cyrex created his first YouTube Channel
DJ shadowblade in 2009 on the channel
who would upload short music videos
anime montages and footage of various
activities like skateboarding or
drumming
sarik's had a different Persona back
then focusing more of the dream of being
a professional musician a dream that he
felt like he would never achieve due to
his appearance yeah I'm 27 and I'm only
five foot three and when I was born I
was born one kidney and one and a half
lungs and you know growing up through
school you know I did get picked on I
got bullied way more than most like I
judge fortunately for Cyrax someone did
try to see potential in him in late 2012
a partial owner of killer Cloud sounds
Eric scrubbler decided to sign cyrex
which gave him the opportunity to try
and make his music dreams a reality an
opportunity that he would proceed to
waste by betraying the one person that
believed in him the relationship between
the two would come to a Bitter End in
April of 2013 after Cyrax had stolen her
for 10 songs from Eric stole the name of
his upcoming albums and claimed he could
do better there is this bro
this was one of the first instances of
Cyrax showing his true colors if he had
the upper hand in any way he would make
sure to abuse that power cyrex did a
dress to falling out by making an
apology video with his then girlfriend
Heather but would only go on to talk
about throwing the labels dog tags in a
lake and never mentioned the fact that
he stole from him man and sauce
listen I know you're pretty upset about
the whole dog tank thing and whatnot
well when we did the whole thing with
the dog tags
it's because we were pissed off we
didn't know what the hell to do
when we were yeah
we were seriously just
we were only doing like my mom wanted us
to do she knew what the idea to throw
them in the lake and at the time it
seemed like a good idea and honestly
we regret it man
yeah big time at the time there weren't
as many eyes on Cyrax so no one was
there to hold him accountable but that
would completely change as the internet
got to see just how vile cyrix acted
when he wasn't on camera on the 20th of
March 2019 a Creator by the name of
Kendall Smith uploaded a video to her
Facebook page calling cyrix out as a
child p word Candlewood attempted to
befriend cyrix on Facebook but he
misinterpreted it as someone being
romantically interested in him after
Kendall rejected his advances cyrics did
a complete 180 and began threatening her
he found her address contacted her
landlord and even harassed her on social
media up until this point only few
people trolled Cyrax and viewed him as
just another wannabe musician that
steals music and artwork but this was
about to change completely as Cyrax was
about to explode in notoriety which
we'll be covering just after this short
break this video has been sponsored by
cyberghostvpn have you ever logged on to
public Wi-Fi feeling like you're on a
spy movie but missing the necessary Tech
to keep you safe this is where our hero
cyberghost VPN saves the day it envelops
your daughter in a cozy encrypted tunnel
like a digital version of a superhero
cape you're not sacrificing speed for
security either it's like having your
cake and eating it with extra frosting
cyberghost VPN even helps you navigate
pasco's pesky blocked online libraries
of more than 40 streaming services
Netflix Hulu Amazon Prime Disney plus
and a bunch of others one subscription
covers you on up to seven devices so you
can even share with your family and
friends think of it as a very affordable
and very effective digital bodyguard it
works with Windows Mac OS Linux iOS
Android Smart TVs and even gaming
consoles cyberghostvpn is like the
Switzerland of operating systems
compatibility with an audience size of
over 38 million users that's more than
the population of Canada just saying and
a 5 star rating on trustpilot is vouched
for by 16 000 users you can join this
group for just two dollars per month
that's right less than a cup of coffee
per month click on the link in the
description to grab this ghostly deal
before it disappears now back to the
video now that accusations of online
misdeeds involving children and stalking
were thrown into the mix people began
taking a closer look and what they found
was nothing short of disgusting back in
January of 2017 cyrex admitted to having
conversations with an 11 year old boy
that he claimed was a fan already Ohio
he's 11 years old he's an amazing kid
he's been listening to my stuff for a
while now
so Nicholas if you're watching his body
welcome man
um I just want to take the time to say
welcome I appreciate what you did
and I want you all to see this this is
how amazing this kid is even if he was
just a fan this proved that cyrix didn't
indeed interact with miners on the
platform which made Kendall's warning
ever more alarming in a new deleted
video cyrix attempted to dismiss the
accusations and tried to frame candle as
the one going after children projecting
his own wrongdoings onto others was a
common tactic cyrex used to deflect
criticism and on the 4th of April 2019
Kendall decided to put an end to the
drama by contacting law enforcement and
completely cutting him off
the truth because look how many videos
you hour the FBI is watching and this is
petty and getting annoying but the next
video you make I suggest you be careful
who you post it to because the the
government officials the fbis are how do
I put this they're they're really
getting tired of this this proved
ineffective all ultimately forcing her
to fake her own death cyrex continued to
make videos about candle but he would
soon move on to a different Target as
the allegations in ensuing drama
attracted the attention of a creator
that would make it his mission to expose
Cyrax in October 2019 music bismari or
just Maori began following cyrax's
Antics and went on to form a rather
strange relationship with Cyrax a
significant portion of Marty's career is
based on pranking or trolling Cyrax
which can often be viewed as bullying
such as the numerous times at Marty
tricked Cyrax into believing that a
record label was going to sign him
setting him up with a fake girlfriend or
even showing up to his home in a Chrono
Ohio and the lights are on
is this where you want to chance
that's all he wants it I hope you feel
like a big man
hello
how are you who are you this is actually
Marty uh Chance's friend he invited me
over here no
he definitely did
hello is that ad
no no not not formally
thank you
what do you what are you doing chance
invited me over here
oh yeah right he did he did he did I was
hoping we could resolve things
well go and ask him despite the trolling
Marty has been able to uncover the more
Sinister side of Cyrax aside that would
normally go unnoticed behind all the
Raging arrogance cyrix was the type of
individual to prone the innocent or
naive Mahdi as well as other individuals
recorded and documented several
instances of cyric's messaging and
sending miners in decent pictures and
videos of himself the allegations
brought forward by candle gained a lot
of legitimacy since her viewers had the
opportunity to witness just how
dangerous Cyrax really was whenever he
got caught red-handed cyrics resulted to
his usual tactic of Shifting blame
projections and raging at trolls
these people have had National Mafia
pretend to be an 18 year old female send
me a picture and they claim to be
underage these people have made up all
kinds of screenshots and conversations
and used my voice to create an AI voice
clone of me to make it look like I was
saying [ __ ] that I wasn't saying and
it's not right it's [ __ ] sickening
what these people have done in the cases
where that didn't work cyrex turned to
trying to make people feel sorry for him
by playing as the victim unfortunately
for Cyrax this would ultimately backfire
and end up unearthing and disturbing
incidents that took place years before
he had even started YouTube in one of
his many attempts to manipulate viewers
Cyrus claimed that it was assaulted
during his time at high school as I said
in my entire real life I was bullied I
was picked on I was beat up I was
degraded I was hungry for answers one of
the trolls pretending to be his online
girlfriend asked him to elaborate on
what really happened now like
unfortunately when I was 16 17 years old
around that time period
um I was actually
by one of my best friends from high
school um now at the time I didn't know
that he was gay
um I had actually met this kid um his
name was Billy Seiler we had gone to the
same high school together
um and me and him grew really really
close we were super cool with each other
and at first like I didn't take him as
gay like I just took him as you know
being you know that weird kid in high
school that's just like really strange
and like an oddball kind of person cyrex
claimed that it was expelled when school
became aware of the incident despite him
being the court victim on the surface it
seemed as if cyrix was powerless in the
situations but the viewers weren't
buying it he stated that the expulsion
was due to a six-month age difference
between them but these claims full of
pots when you realize that they'll birth
mine is at the time things get even
worse when you take into account that
Billy was legally blind it didn't take
long for Marty to find and get in touch
with the blind Billy to hear his side of
the story because this was during the
night
um that it happened we were up in my
room you know it was late at night I
think I was searching for something and
the next thing I know is I'm in a doggy
style position and basically
my my pants and underwear come off or at
least down to the ankles sorryx had once
again Twisted the facts to gain sympathy
from his viewers but this time it didn't
end well for him he had assaulted
someone who saw him as a friend and
wanted people to feel sorry for him oh
my name's already been cleared dude my
name has been cleared for [ __ ] years
for [ __ ] years since it happened my
name got cleared we spoke to the school
we spoke to the police they know what
Billy did they know what Billy did
that's why they removed me from that
school because of what he did so it
didn't happen to me again that's why
they did what they did throughout his
life cyrics had always tried to
manipulate and take advantage of any and
everyone is ever come into contact with
this toxic pattern extends into his
relationship with his family and the few
friends he managed to make over time
individuals that he claims to love and
protect there's a long list of times
when cyrix has been physically abusive
to his so-called loved ones in February
2012 cyrics was arrested for strangling
his grandmother and primary caretaker
Sally cyrix claimed that he was blacked
out during the incident and luckily for
him Sally didn't press any charges on
the 4th of February 2020 cyrix went on
to one of Marley's streams and revealed
how toxic his relationship was with his
then-girlfriend Heather he actually I
can't even talk to her like a normal
person
[Music]
[Music]
there have also been times when Cyrus
has cheated on his partner by sending
inappropriate pitches to mine is on the
internet but even with that being said
it wouldn't take any accountability for
it and claimed one of his ex-girlfriends
hacked his phone
I want you guys to know that she did go
to jail
Tiffany did go to jail for hacking
crimes
how much time she's serving I don't know
because I'm not there so I can't really
you know say
many of the women that have been around
Cyrax were only there due to his
reputation or seemingly promising record
deal this was the case with his second
girlfriend Heather who left her family
when she thought Cyrus was getting a
record deal a decision that she would
later regret cyrix has never once taken
responsibility for his actions and
instead opts to play the victim card a
habit that he doesn't seem to be
stopping anytime soon currently cyrix
has never bothered to get a stable job
and claims it's due to people trolling
him this becomes hard to believe when
you take into consideration that Marty
has tried to get cyric's job in the past
syrex seems to prefer the status quo of
his grandmother taking care while he
blames people on the internet for all of
his problems on the 13th of April 2023
cyrics tried to deflect criticism by
blaming a troll in AI for the videos of
his deplorable acts and current living
conditions these people have made up all
kinds of screenshots and conversations
and use my voice to create an AI voice
clone of me to make it look like I was
saying [ __ ] that I wasn't saying and
it's not right it's [ __ ] sickening
what these people have done cyrix has
shown that his online appearance and
perceived status matter more than
anything else even his grandmother being
in hospital due to a stroke comes second
to shutting down the trolls subscribe if
you enjoyed
