I will teach them lesson I show them T
Joshua wanted to write history for
himself he want them to serve him he
want to rule over them and my brother he
did it a disciple of T is a slave t i
was a disciple of T Joshua for 10 years
from 2001 to 2010 I stayed in that place
till 2013 so was that 12 13 years that
that I was there inos I was 16 or maybe
even 15 when I first visited um and then
I stayed for 14 years it was a
psychological prison we all thought we
were in heaven but we were in hell and
in Hell terrible things
happen God
pleas our Black Disciples they suffered
so much he beat you without
messy you thought you were in the safest
place in the world and you were in the
most dangerous it is time for
healing hello people of god good morning
good afternoon good evening I greet you
in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ um
pleas forgive give the quality of my
videos this time around my camera
charger has a has an issue I have an
issue with the camera charger and um
that is why I'm using my my laptop now
but I will fix that very very soon so
the video we are looking at you're going
to is um the reaction proper from uh The
Synagogue Church of all Nations as the
respond to BBC on the recent documentary
that was done on TV Joshua now the title
is characters in BBC's documentary on TB
Joshua unknown to us synagogue chur hey
hello I want to play that you watch this
video till the end if you don't watch
till the end you will misunderstand what
I am talking about in this video thank
you and God bless you all right good
morning good afternoon good evening this
is the end time TR television channel we
urge you to subscribe to the channel
activate the Bell Icon by selecting all
so that the next time we upload a new
video you will be among the first
persons to be notified by Google I'll be
seeing you in the next video till then
Shalom at The Synagogue Church of all
Nations scan yesterday countered the BBC
documentary on the late
Baba Joshua known as T Joshua founder
ofan scan described the documentary
against TI Joshua as unfounded and that
the characters interviewed in the report
were unknown to the church now this is
when I I heard this one I had this point
I was like no that is not true if the
persons because this is a blatant denial
a making people think that those in the
video never come across or never we in
The Synagogue Church of all Nations we I
have not been to Synagogue Church of all
Nations as a member you know I've not
even met T Joshua once but there is
something that we cannot deny you know
evidence that these people the men and
the women who were interviewed there at
least that documentary alone showed when
they were younger and when they were
serving even as um TV crew members all
those were there so for them to say that
the characters interviewed in the report
were unknown to the church is the
beginning of a terrible lie that will
continue the church in a statement by
its public affairs director Mr Dar adore
said the statement was aimed at
disabusing in public Minds from the
report now recall that the BBC released
a highly controversial and the damning
documentary on the late C Joshua on
Monday accusing him of various crimes
including rape against some members
reacting to the documentary scan said
that to investigate and publish a
broadcast reports was a central canel of
Journalism but to do so outside the
ethics and fundamental principles of the
profession was an auration now I also
saw in the video that BBC said they
reached out to the church for them to
prove this or counter it and they
claimed that making spous and unfounded
allegation against T Joshua was nothing
new and so in that sense the they kind
of rejected the opportunity to defend to
to refute or to affirm the stories so
the statement reads BBC World Services
investigative unit could named Africa
eye came out this week with weird and
strange episodes of atrocities against
the late founder of scan BBC has
compromised this lofy principles by
descending into fictional narratives and
propaganda thus turning itself into a
weapon for a hashed job as gangsters in
the gap of journalist with a destructive
ulterior motive for personal gains
against a perceived enemy was T Joshua
really an enemy of the BBC or maybe
enemy to some of the disciples who came
out only the BBC can best explain why it
wul deviated from the journalism and
chose to be dishing junk and feeding the
public with stones C bread by its
offensive and disenchanted reports of
disg gruntled elements this to say the
least is insulting to our professional
and public intelligence one thing is
very obvious hundreds of BBC chariots
cannot rubbish the indelible footprints
of TI Joshua's legacies on Earth again
those beneficiaries are all over the
place and cannot be disputed they are
lining up and responding angrily to this
imperialist broadcasting station many of
them are in in the UK the home base of
the BBC B which its jist investigative
eyes can not see but only the subborn
narrators myriads of broken homes
reconciled by TB Joshua are also crying
foul of BBC's broadcast of inequity
uncountable hopeless children drawn from
different parts of the world some
brought by their parents While others
were picked from drug joints or BRS who
have gotten their Destinies restored are
also pissed off by the offensive reports
BBC has shut itself in the fruit by its
compromise and roadside journalism it
said the BBC would not have lost
anything if it had gone to the church
even in these guys as visitors to have
direct experience of what was happening
in the church instead of relying on the
gruntled and manipulated individuals
some of whom were never known before in
scan now this is just what I don't
understand who actually amongst them was
never known in scan I really do not
understand so this defense is making the
whole matter worse I tell you I they
kept mute for some time but coming out
to this this kind of defense is
worsening the issues now saying some of
those people who amongst them can they
actually pinpoint the because we saw one
of the the the five stories Brothers you
know we saw him with a tag in the church
an old picture as an AER this is a place
a system where you have nobody to talk
to and there was nothing I could do
where the first story buers are the ones
covering him these are children of 16 17
years he kept all of us in slavery total
absolute slavery during the day he was
an user maybe at night he served as the
five story brother I mean the ladies in
question we saw them we saw them we saw
them in Services some of them having
microphones preaching as well and we are
all here living in The Synagogue Church
of All Nation as evangelists in training
under our father in the Lord senior
Prophet heie Joshua he was really Keen
to use us on the videos to endorse him
and to get the endorsement of the
western world and you are joining us
here at a synagogue church for Nations
after a wonderful Sunday service and I
felt like we all had this truth we felt
the world needed TB Joshua can you tell
us what do what is your opinion of the
man of I've got Prophet T have you seen
push them to go and interview so that
people outside will see that oh
synagogue is doing something new TB
Joshua he was happy he was really happy
never doubt it he is the man of
God he was just like a
Peter and all the whole disciples were
pets he had the strings what can you
tell us about your experience here my
experience has been awesome at the
beginning we look really bad and like
malnourished visit she started asking
questions so then it was like well you
guys have to dress really well we had to
do all our makeup we had to look good we
know that you've just had the wonderful
privilege to join us here at The
Synagogue Church of all Nations on our
Sunday
service whatever you know whatever you
think you are no matter the degree you
have we have a system that will break
you down being a disciple um you lived
under a really strict set of
rules Lord Jesus
and you know some of the wise men have
actually reacted and responded and none
of them had had questioned the or the
truth of some of those people
interviewed ever being present at scan
now remember I just did a video where I
questioned actually one of the
characters that was actually interviewed
now I didn't question her being in the
church but her stories that looked a
little bit contradicting but these
people here are doing a lot of damage to
the stories now blatantly deny in these
uh people some of them is making the
matters worse we saw bisa on the floor
the her old video when she was brought
and was
humiliated I will teach them lesson I
show them wanted to write history for
himself he want them to serve him he
want to rule over them and my brother he
did it a disciple of is a slave t i was
a disciple of TB Joshua for 10 years
from 2001 to 2010 I stayed in that place
till 2013 so was that 12 13 years that
that I was there in Lagos I was 16 or
maybe even 15 when I first visited um
and then I stayed for 14 years it was a
psychological prison we all thought we
were in heaven but we were in hell and
in Hell terrible things
happen God
please our Black Disciples they suffered
so much he beat you without
messy you thought you were in the safest
place in the world and you were in the
most dangerous it is time for healing
and B dly accepted that that was she all
right a was I mean are we talking about
AWI who was in that video that they
could say wasn't part of The Synagogue
Church in the first place or maybe the
person that wrote this thing just came
to synagogue he he just collected a
contract to write this in order to
confuse young minds that are not you
know thinking they the thoughtful mind
he said some of those identified are
relics of homosexual and Les Associates
my findings further show that everything
the BBC put together is strange to scan
yeah there was one of the ladies who
said that even what brought her to the
church was because he was finding it
difficult to identify herself you know
this thing this thing D call it crisis
of ident identity you know identity
crisis so the the young lady was having
crisis identity but she also said that
daddy came and told her to open up and
her clothes we saw her we saw her we saw
her younger younger personality and she
was not actually helped so so if she
came to the church as um being confused
as per who she was whether she was a
woman or a man open say she was gay and
the daddy could not help her really by
the spirit that he was working with at
least to identify who she was and
eventually she has got her own path
believing in that thing that brought her
through the SCH in the first place all
right so let me repeat it again it said
some of those identified are relics of
homosexual and lesbian Associates my
findings further show that everything
the BBC puts together is strange to scan
what the logical thing in the Char is
the BBC's categorical statement that t
Joshua a man of God was involved in all
the abuse for over two decades okay
let's say maybe he did it while he was
starting so as point in time he stopped
if that was the case you should tell us
that that was the case that he stopped
okay he did it early in the his ministry
he did it but at some point in time when
he has shaved his beards and was looking
very very neat and handsome and he
stopped if that is what we trying to put
across to us F we will understand how
can that be in a nation governed by law
it shows the stations C disrespect and
bizer perception of Nigeria my friend
stop that we know we in Nigeria we're in
Nigeria and we know the high and the
mighty can escape from anything we know
we know we know we know how it works in
Nigeria we are all in Nigeria we all in
Nigeria that somebody can I mean stop
stop saying that I beg which Nigeria
which Nigeria we're talking about this
Nigeria this Nigeria that even the
government does not believe the rule of
of law the court will give an order a
judgment and the persons who are
supposed to be custodians of the law I
mean who are supposed to respect the law
to lead by example that the law must be
obeyed and respected they defy the court
others how many of them have forget that
one where were all those Shameless
interview interviews in all the decades
was it when the man passed on that they
suddenly became aware awake or came back
to their senses only a fool we have
respect for such charlatans I want to
remind you that bisa and Paul has have
always told these stories they have told
the stories and even while T Joshua was
alive remember so uh this is the their
response but I just want to close with
the fact that a lot of these persons may
not have come out out of fear that they
might be killed or that they might not
survive it like bisa and um survived
it I want to tell my story to say that
look it's not easy but you'll be okay
you can come out of this and you can
heal and you can find life again
after what kept me quiet was and fear is
an illusion proud of myself for Having
the courage to tell the truth about who
this man really was my son the fact that
I I have two kids is a miracle because
of the trauma experience it's not been
easy but despite all the crying and
being upset and being upset about
friends family still there I'm so grate
to be out I'm so grateful just to be
[Music]
free
I I go through my my days where I'm at
my lowest turned honestly I just want I
just want more Peak Tranquility
stability I lost everything my home my
family but for me it comes down to the
truth and for as long as there is breath
in me I'll defend that until the very
end I we only came out recently because
he too was afraid you know of his life
and these are things that
that can be proven so um if I if I was a
member of the think tank in synagogue
instead of this kind of lame explanation
and defense would have been better they
didn't say anything being silent on this
give you some time after all TI Joshua
is is gone he's dead and there are
stubborn followers that will never ever
you know clinch their their support for
TB Joshua all right there are so many of
them that don't think they just want to
go ahead and and I have some of them as
friends too Who Loved TB Joshua the TB
Joshua that they knew on the on the
television screen the TB Joshua that
they saw on the podiums on Crusade
grounds the TB Joshua that they saw on
that big altar at The Synagogue Church
of all Nations now that was the T they
knew they loved they fell in love with
and they are still loving so if you you
knew that you actually had nothing
upstairs because this for me is is dumb
it's not it's not is a lame defense it
was better it would have been better to
keep mute give it to me one month two
months 3 months you know highest one
year it will die and then you you you
keep doing your thing you keep doing
what you are doing in the synagogue you
may not have been part of it you may not
have known some of those people who you
claimed were never known thisan but have
you asked Evelyn and Evelyn says that
she never knew many of those people
interviewed well thank you everybody and
God bless you let's know what you think
about about this in the comment section
we see you in the next video till then
from me to you before I sign out I also
you know put out my sheet for those that
will come to attack and to you know do
what T Joshua followers know how best to
do and that always will make me question
this so-called love that TB Joshua uh
preached because the preaching that did
not affect you preach the message of
love that you heard but it never
affected the way you see life that
loving showing love and giving love
makes you all of you will claim that TB
Joshua was attacked attacked attacked
and he never attacked anybody so you are
now his um his foot soldiers that will
attack those that attack him and the
Lord give you understanding in Jesus
name I'll be see you in the next video
to then from me to you
shalom
