[Music]
planet Mars is visible in the sky with
the naked eye as a bright orange scar
thus the planet was known since
antiquity
due to its color the planet was named
after Mars the God of War
the observations of the strange paths of
Mars among the stars made by the Danish
astronomer Tycho Brahe's led Kepler to
discover the laws of planetary motion
[Music]
with the telescope some bright and dark
marks can be observed on its surface by
the end of the 19th century the
astronomers Schiaparelli and Lowell made
visual observations of many straight
lines on its surface these lines were
named channels they believed that there
was once an advanced civilization living
on Mars that had struggled to survive by
transporting water from the planet ice
caps to the arid equatorial area through
these channels the first astronomer to
dispute these beliefs was Eugene
antoniadis
by observing the 1909 apparition of the
planet with the then enormous Madonn
great refractor Antonia proved that the
channels were an illusion and under
perfect seeing conditions they were
fractured geological formation
[Music]
you
[Music]
after the Second World War
telescopic observations provided much
information about the atmosphere and the
morphology of the surface of Mars
[Music]
the real exploration of the planet begun
in the 1970s with the use of unmanned
spacecraft since then numerous missions
have revealed many details of Mars
we have also managed to land
remote-controlled small vehicles
equipped with special instruments to
study the soil of the planet and search
for elementary forms of life
[Music]
unfortunately these searches show no
evidence of life until now it seems that
the planet is dead but the search
continues
[Music]
we now know that Mars orbits the Sun at
the mean distance of 228 million
kilometers we also know that the planet
rotates around its tilted axis in 24
hours and 37 minutes its diameter is six
thousand seven hundred and ninety-four
kilometres and its mass only one tenth
of Earth this small mass is the reason
that the Red Planet cannot retain a
significant atmosphere
today Mars is an arid and inhospitable
place with a mean temperature of about
minus 23 degrees centigrade yet in the
hemisphere that is illuminated by the
Sun the temperatures can rise to 35
degrees centigrade its thin atmosphere
has strong winds and dust storms and
consists mostly of carbon dioxide and
nitrogen with only traces of oxygen at
the poles huge amounts of ice can be
observed the polar ice changes in
appearance along with the seasons of the
planet most of this ice is frozen carbon
dioxide but it seems that there is also
some water ice
on its surface many mountains valleys
Highlands deserts and empty riverbeds
were observed
[Music]
[Applause]
in the past the planet had water in huge
quantities this water either escapes
from the planets of space or was trapped
in reservoirs inside the planets crust
there are also numerous small and big
craters and some huge inactive volcanoes
the biggest volcano on Mars is Mount
Olympus and is 25 kilometres high its
base covers 600 kilometers this volcano
is the biggest in the solar system
[Music]
the large cannon Valles Marineris has a
length of four thousand kilometers and a
depth of up to seven kilometers the
length of Valles Marineris is equivalent
to the length of Europe and extend
across one-fifth the circumference of
Mars
right
[Music]
in 1877 two tiny irregular-shaped
satellites were discovered orbiting the
planet
[Music]
the largest satellite named bubbles is
27 by 22 by 18 kilometers and the
smaller demos only 15 by 12 by 10
kilometers
these objects were probably asteroid
captured by Mars gravitational field and
thus became its satellites
in the near future we could build
scientific colonies on the planet in
order to explore and reveal all the red
planet's secrets we have already
designed instruments and vehicles to be
used by astronauts in future exploration
[Music]
it seems that the time is growing near
when human will step for the first time
on the surface of another planet of our
solar system
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
