432 days have passed since kflox
surrendered himself to detectives for a
murder that happened on December 16 2021
while walking with his sister and her
friend down 151st and Amsterdam he
crossed paths with another gang member
who spotted him from inside of a barber
shop words were exchanged and just
moments later the man who was identified
as Oscar Hernandez died from bullets to
the neck and chest after 9-1-1 calls
came pouring in investigators quickly
identified K flock in his 4 000 outfit
as the main suspect they then issued a
warrant for his arrest on first-degree
murder charges on December 23rd and
without question he self-admitted he was
only 18 years old at the time
three days later his lawyer would
release a statement claiming the
shooting was done in self-defense
somebody walked out to confront him it's
all on video when the guy hits the
ground he's got a loaded gun that was in
his pocket that his hand was on at the
time we considered that to be
self-defense the surveillance footage
that was released seemed to strongly
back this up seeing that he was the one
who was approached and then threatened
now those court date would continuously
be delayed the entire 2022 year it was
likely he was going to beat the case and
be released within a matter of time but
the feds had other plans and they want
anything but to see k-flog back on the
streets of the Bronx on February 23 2023
the federal government stormed in and
added a 15-page indictment on k-flog and
seven others now being labeled the
leader of an organized crime syndicate
the New York federal court is demanding
that the 19 year old rapper serve a
minimum of life in prison or a maximum
of the death penalty
in Harlem the incident took place
yesterday morning
[Music]
before he was ever known as cavelock he
was just Kevin Perez born April 20th
2003 in the Bronx New York although the
Bronx is the birthplace of hip-hop music
40 of the borough lives below the
poverty line making it a hub for crime
and gang activity unfortunately he was
no exception to that growing up in this
environment his mom says he tried to
play Sports boxing and was also into
fashion but she never expected him to
become a rapper he wanted to actually do
clothing designs and stuff like that I
had him in boxing because that's what we
do things like that but never nothing of
music ever school never interested him
either he already had an early mindset
of getting out on the streets and he did
so with the hustle of someone twice his
age at just 10 years old he had already
been outside hanging on the Block K
flock took note of what other rappers
were doing at the time in Chicago
because while he was growing up in the
Bronx the Chicago drill scene was
starting to take over although young in
his mind he was old enough to start
hustling and meeting new people in the
neighborhood even though K flock was
good at making enemy he was even better
at making friends
Aaron Howard or Dougie B is actually his
blood cousin but the two grew up like
good friends then there was question or
B love as we know him he was the oldest
and had a lot of influence over them
including being the first one to pick up
rapping and lastly there was also Jalen
known as pmvj who at one point was their
friend needless to say Be Love had
already been in the streets and he had
some connections and was already making
a name for himself to them the streets
were too much fun this was our mindset
at a young age being young and not fully
understanding the lifestyle that came
with it losing family and friends was
part of growing up in the Bronx being
from 187th Street KFOG repped a gang
called sevside in DOA and like any said
they were at war with a few others
sometimes they even referred to
themselves as ebk or everybody Killers
how do you be K because anybody could
get shot so you can imagine they had a
lot of enemies with the YG's and ogs
being the main Ops of Seth side as I
mentioned B love was the first one to
start recording music but he didn't like
the way his songs were coming out so he
ended up giving it up for a while and
never release the songs meanwhile pmbj
would actually be the first one to find
some success with songs like ombk seeing
that pnvj could get views like that only
made them realize they could do it as
well seeing they all come from the same
area shortly after beloved ended up
doing some time Behind Bars later
claiming that someone had snitched on
him this made him hate the street
politics wanting to pursue music more so
he could leave that behind but while
this was happening k flock was running
his Ops down in the streets and would
even go live on Instagram showing him in
hoods he wasn't supposed to be in like
he was Bulletproof
[Music]
down there
although negative this attention would
actually put his name out there so his
reputation was quickly building in just
a few months Flocka had made a few
hundred fans I would watch his streams
where he taunted his enemies the idea of
making music still wasn't on his mind
though the streets had his full
attention
however the atmosphere of New York's
music scene was quickly changing before
this auto-tune melodic rappers like a
boogie and Lil TJ have been setting the
tone but 2018 saw the rise of Brooklyn
drill rappers who began using UK drill
beats giving a whole new sound that
quickly took over the city no drill
wrappers were popping up all over
Brooklyn while the Bronx was struggling
to get anywhere close to that kind of
recognition but that was about to change
foreign
[Music]
Ty beloved came home from his sentence
and upon his return Dougie B convinced
him and K flock to start rapping
seriously but things were only getting
more complicated in the streets at this
point their friend pmvj started repping
a new set in Dougie B and others were
upset about that what is your reason
why you don't like me
one day pmvj was back in Southside
visiting his family when Dougie B and
her friend pulled up allegedly asking
pnvj's mom if he was home she unknowing
of the beef told him that he was
upstairs if they wanted to hang out this
would ultimately lead up to Dougie B
taking the chain off of his neck and
recording the entire incident
[Music]
K flock of course would side with Dougie
B and the rest was history because of
this though Dougie B would actually
spend some time in jail for the robbery
with Dougie gone bee love and K flock
were still in the streets looking for a
way out but for an undisclosed reason
due to being a minor K flock was then
also put into a juvenile detention
center for a short period of time
with Beloved the only ones still holding
on to his freedom he began freestyling
over drill beats until K Vlog came home
when Flocka was released beloved sat him
down and told him he should really give
rapping his full attention and within
time he booked a studio session for him
where he recorded his first track on May
26 2020 K flock dropped that song which
was titled fto a remix to 22g's Blakey
freestyle the song amassed over a
hundred thousand views due to the hype K
flock had already been building in the
streets and now everyone wanted to hear
him rap 22gs even ended up giving him
props for the remix a huge success for
his first song one month went by and
beloved dropped his first official song
as well no hook which also saw about the
same success they now had a platform to
grow off of and put the Bronx drill
movement on the map dropping music at
least once a month and collabing on many
of them their names were quickly
becoming the talk of the city they also
made sure to shout out Dougie being
verses while he was still locked away so
his past music was also getting
recognized and gave him a small Buzz for
when he got out but with all the
attention they were now getting it was
also putting an even larger Target on
their backs every song became more
specific targeting different ops but
this is also what made it so popular in
the first place they made it a point to
help each other stay on track and no
matter what was happening in the streets
they had to keep recording music if they
were gonna make it out
Dougie B was released around August of
2020 and when he saw the momentum be
love and K flock I built up he quickly
rejoined the mix this is when things
would really start to take off kind of
like a trio except they all had their
own individual careers in March of 2021
the three of them dropped their song
brotherly love the first month it was
out it got over a million views and
really put them on the map I feel like
the famous
people from outside the city were now
tuning in and their fan base grew a lot
after this a big reason the music was
catching on was because they didn't just
copy the drill sound that Brooklyn was
seeing success with but rather they put
their own twists on it making it an
entirely new sound
[Music]
and although other Bronx rappers were
getting views too it was really these
three who took it to that next level
from here forward their songs were
easily Gathering millions of views every
time but make no mistake they were still
in the middle of a war things between
sebside the YG's and ogs was heating up
and the music was only adding fuel to
the fire for all sides unlike most gangs
that you've heard about in the past the
ones doing the most damage here in the
Bronx were actually kids from the ages
of 12 to 18. these kids are younger and
wilder than anything you could imagine
in their pulling triggers during this
time K flock was having beef with his
own cousin and rapper D thing just
because he was repping a different set
and that just shows how serious they
took it
but it's gonna be an RRP
then there was another situation with
rapper edot who at one point was friends
with gay as well after an Instagram live
showed eat out smoking and chilling with
kflox Ops their friendship was over as
well 16 with 2 million views they never
do that before all my Ops 18 19 20 21
I'll be for old great old no they're not
even my Ops I'm smacked I'm high y'all
know that they know my eyes
at this point it seemed like everybody
had a problem with everybody but again
every single one of them was benefiting
from these beefs Bronx drill had
everybody tuned in but at what cost in
July a 21 year old rapper named Ty swish
was shot in the head while outside of
his apartment complex two days later a
13 year old named jarion was chased down
and shot outside of a cafe in Belmont
yeah Joe it was a shooting that left a
13 year old dead and parents of
teenagers here horrified that someone
could do this the NYPD tonight is asking
for anyone within information to help
them find the killer it's not confirmed
but it's rumored that this was probably
retaliation for Tai swish's death from
just a few days before on July 11th
another 16 year old rapper named rajes
was getting into an Uber headed to a
studio session two kids on scooters
rolled up from behind him and shot him
rajes had been mocking the death of
jerion on social media just an hour
before around 11 30 Sunday night by the
corner of East 178th Street and Webster
Avenue in the Bronx police say two men
pulled scooters up next to a cab Medrano
was taking to a recording studio they
then shot him in his head and chest
killing him a Perpetual cycle of dissing
and then death was happening but while
this war was brewing between everyone K
flock Dougie B and B love were on the
brink of going mainstream something they
had been risking their lives for in an
attempt to make it out was finally about
to pay off
[Music]
let me
shortly after K flock dropped his song
being honest and he would get his first
collab from a mainstream artist when G
herbo gave him a verse following suit
Lil TJ and 504 and would also collab
with him on the song in the mood now he
was getting radio play on Hot 97 and
together with B love he walked onto his
first major show at rolling loud K flock
beloved and Dougie B would all sign
record deals shortly after with keflash
rumored to have been worth a few million
dollars now they had the money and
freedom they had been working hard for
but it's a double-edged sword the
dissing and Gang Lifestyle was partially
the reason they became so popular so
it's hard to just leave that behind at
this point but with money in his pockets
he was seen enjoying the Finer Things in
life taking trips to Miami riding around
in a new BMW and spalling his little
sister and girlfriend with shopping
trips but the money and fame only made
him an even larger target for his Ops
which means he now had to think twice
before doing anything in his home City
and you better believe they were
watching his every move
the morning of December 16th kfloc woke
up and was seen on live once again
taunting his enemies to come find him
but he made sure to let him know he
wasn't lacking as he revealed a gun
tucked in his belt hours later he was
walking down Amsterdam Avenue in 151st
Street a sheisty covered most of his
face but a 1500 Montclair jacket
unreleased Air Jordans and a fourteen
hundred dollar pair of Amiri jeans may
have still gave his identity away as he
passed by a barber shop surveillance
shows Oscar Hernandez comes storming out
to confront K flock although he walks
out of sight of the cameras for a second
we can assume threats were being made on
both ends after Oscar turned his back to
walk away keflak pulled the gun from
under his jacket and shot him twice in
the neck and back Oscar would die later
in the hospital while kefla quickly fled
the scene
was inside a barbershop when the gunman
opened the door and asked him quote what
are you looking at and the victim went
outside to confront him he was fatally
struck in the neck in the back because
he was so easy to identify and
investigators had access to surveillance
from multiple angles a warrant was
issued only six days later but the
police wouldn't need to look for him
on December 23rd K hired a well-known
lawyer named Scott Lima to represent him
they drove together to the 30th Precinct
where he surrendered himself in this
statement his lawyer describes that
police had received a tip that K flock
wasn't actually the shooter in the
surveillance footage but that was
quickly shut down he was denied Bond and
waited Behind Bars while more evidence
was collected by the police then in
March out of nowhere Kay would fire his
old lawyer and hire the same lawyer who
represented El Chapo a promising sign in
this Instagram post his new lawyer
stated that he was excited to work with
K flock and was confident he would beat
this trial
is you know I don't want to talk too
much about the details of the case that
the government claims that he pulled the
gun out and shot him but at the same
time the person that was dead on the
ground had his hand on a loaded weapon
illegal loaded weapon KFOG then posted
several updated photos with the caption
reading all good don't believe the blogs
or Internet everything trendy forever
DOA over the summer of 2022 his attorney
began to argue self-defense claiming K
had no intentions or premeditation to
murder oscar but instead feared for his
life after all he was in a dangerous
part of town and he was the one who was
confronted in the situation social media
had been supporting free k flock and
many believed tend to be released sooner
than later but his court appearances
were being postponed one after another
in November of 2022 fans tuning in would
explode when the courts made an error
showing his next court date to take
place in December of 2028 leaving many
to wonder if this was a mistake but
shortly after the next court appearance
was updated and corrected this time set
for November 16th but even that would be
delayed once again the only update the
world would get was a recorded phone
call of K flock dropping bars saying he
felt confident he would be home in 2023.
his next appearance was set for February
2023 and those tuned into the drill
scene were patiently awaiting for the
return of the Bronx biggest drill artist
instead what fans and kfoc would get
would be a wake-up call that no one
could see coming
oh
early on the morning of February 23rd
before Kay was set to appear in court
the federal government would release a
15-page indictment on him and seven
others of the gang Seth side under the
racketeering influence and corrupt
organization act or Ricoh charges and
these are very serious accusations
normally the evidence behind Ricoh
charges go back many years but in K
flock and sevsides case it was only two
years worth of evidence leaving many to
believe this was rushed in a desperate
attempt to keep K flock away and locked
up regardless the government had
gathered enough evidence against him in
his entire gang wanting to make an
example out of all of them due to New
York having some of the strictest
sentencing in an image to uphold New
York wasn't taking a liking to the image
that K flock and his music were giving
the city after all this is the home of
the stock exchange and some of the
wealthiest people in the country the
last thing they want is kids glorifying
murders in their City New York City the
not waiting for that you're not gonna
make the city where e-commerce and the
stock market lives look like a
crime-invested Haven to the rest of the
world and when you're now a rapper and
you're going on live to say hey I have a
gun and I'm chasing them down you're not
going to do it in New York City you can
do this in Chicago you could do this in
Houston you could do to Miami you will
never in life do this in New York City
now it suddenly made sense why KFOX
court day was being delayed what most
initially thought would be no more than
a few years quickly turned into a
minimum life sentence with the maximum
being the death penalty
neither K or his defense have responded
as of now only a few recent photos of
prison where K is seen here police are
now Gathering all seven indicted members
in kflox life hangs in the middle
he wanted to be the one who made the
change for everyone around him but at
just 19 years old he may have already
lost the chance of being a free man
yeah
I'm gonna be the [ __ ] that make the
change to everybody
[Music]
[Music]
will you see me
