basket ball a fast-paced physically
demanding sport that keeps audiences
around the world on the edge of their
seats when it comes to professional
basketball most people think of players
such as Michael Jordan Kobe Bryant Larry
Bird and LeBron James for their ability
to put lots of points on the scoreboard
but basketball is a team sport all fight
positions on a team are responsible for
the outcome of the game the best player
may sink the most shots but the most
pivotal player on the team controls the
tempo of the game communicates
effectively on the court and most
importantly utilizes the individual
strengths of his or her teammates to
create scoring opportunities this skill
set defines the position of the point
guard point guard is uh you know the guy
that's responsible for running his team
I think it's it's a really difficult
sport to play without a point guard you
know cuz I think everyone has individual
responsibilities but very few positions
or roles on the court have the
responsibility of everyone a point guard
is is a key component of any successful
team you know you look at some of the
most successful teams in the in the
history or in the country that win at
the highest level and all of them have
elite point guards that are distributing
it and scoring and running the show as a
coach would want at a very high level
controlling the tempo of a game involves
both slowing down and accelerating the
momentum of the team when in possession
of the ball either strategy can be
implemented but certain situations will
force the point guard to use one or the
other during the game slowing a game
down
and speeding the game up is controlling
the tempo you have to know when it's how
much time is on the clock with the shot
clock whether it's 30-second or it's
nine seconds you guys take good shots
within those possessions to further be
counted as a good possession so it's
controlling the game my philosophy is
you need to give the point guard a lot
of freedom and a lot of ability to make
decisions and be creative we like to
play an up-tempo style of basketball
where we're running or pushing the
basketball and and you've got to be able
to trust the point guard to not turn the
ball over and make good decisions the
fast-break is a scoring opportunity in
which the ball on defense is turned over
and in most cases given to the point
guard to move up court as quickly as
possible for a potential basket why the
point guard because speed superior ball
handling and court vision are all
necessary to accomplish this task in the
fast-break you want to get the ball to
the point guard when guards have the
ability to push up the floor they're our
best ball handlers they're our best
decision-makers that's it's really just
a point guards special to use to run the
fastbreak
I think fast breaks are incredibly
advantageous anytime you got a defense
in transition we might have a numbers
advantage you know opportunities arise
for easy baskets but also a defense
that's in transition has a really hard
time setting up so it's really hard to
help and rotate or to be organized so
transition opportunities can kill a
team's defense communicating effectively
is essential for anyone in a leadership
position every individual on the court
should be talking but in order for a
team to function properly one player
must be heard overall the rest
the point guard needs to be able to
delegate and give responsibilities to
his teammates and make sure you know
it's clear on what he's expecting to be
even more clear on that on the
expectations and communication and I
think that's absolutely vital to any
team success communication can be huge I
think for a team in general but for a
point guard he was kind of responsible
and some
and his part psychologist for his team
has to understand where the team is at
the state of the team the state of the
psychology of its individuals you know
what they've gone through this season
you know those type of things I think a
point guard has to constant way up and
be able to steer the ship and
advantageous position not only with
certain individuals but as a group when
the team's best scorer is shut off by
the defense the team must then rely on
the individual strengths of its players
the point guard knows these strengths
and uses them in a coordinated manner to
create an entity much stronger than a
single player an efficient team I think
it's pretty dangerous to piggyback off
one player I mean it's a team sport so
if you're gonna rely heavily on one
player you leave a lot of risk or other
things to chance well I think that
obviously 90% of teams have a best
player that you're gonna lean on but
they have to be supportive so how does
the point guard bring all the pieces of
the puzzle together effective passing is
one of the ways shooting and driving to
the basket is good for a point guard to
have but the most vital asset is passing
because they have to give the most
dominant player in the ball where he or
she is comfortable on floor whether it
be in a post or on a wing normally the
point guard usually assists me when I
score I'm usually in the in the low post
area block to block you know just
working around that area just you know
being a big that's that's my job to work
around those areas so when the point
guard gets in the lane and he's you know
he's good gathering two guys three guys
on him to just you know creating a havoc
then he can dump the ball off to me I
think it's very important to give the
point guard the ability to divert from
from the play and allow him that
creativity to make a play I think
there's definitely a point in games to
to when to give that freedom and when to
make a play and see something and
capitalize off of it as opposed to an
execution that you need at the end of a
game as a point guard I always you know
I think my nature is the pass I always
wanted to create opportunities for my
teammates I wanted to get them easy
opportunities so they felt good about
themselves
but I also felt
like in order to create opportunities
for my teammates I had to be aggressive
to score just put pressure on the
defense and the defense left me with an
opportunity to create a shot I had to
take it but you know in my heart I wish
they would open up passing lanes and I
can make them pay that way so that I can
involve a teammate you know you
definitely have go-to guys on a team but
it's really important to develop a
chemistry with those guys so that you're
stacking the deck in their favor and
your favor by putting them in positions
to succeed as time goes by basketball
will progress and new faces will change
the game as we know it however one fact
will remain certain basketball is a team
sport where there is a successful team
there is a point guard controlling the
tempo communicating effectively with
teammates and creating scoring
opportunities what's the point simply
the most important position on the team
you
you
