now I know what you're thinking what's
so special about Benjamin Franklin I
mean he looks like the guy from the
Quaker Oats box or somebody's hippie
grandpa but let me tell you looks can be
deceiving because this rather goofy
looking chap with quaint pair of glasses
on the tip of his nose and sporting a
rather rotund belly was perhaps one of
the most remarkable brilliant
influential and yes even brave men in
human history what he and his fellow
delegates did in this very room in the
Continental Congress signing the
Declaration of Independence proves that
more than anything else this is Benjamin
Franklin one of America's founding
fathers a revolutionary of fiery passion
a scientist a business strategist a
librarian an abolitionist and a
philanthropist he was also a diplomat to
foreign nations a writer and humorist
blessed with a brilliant and cutting wit
a musician an inventor of ingenious
devices a governor and estates all of
this and more all rolled into one
lovable little fat man and then stuffed
into a nice pair of breeches and white
stockings this is the incredible story
of America's true jack-of-all-trades
dr. Benjamin Franklin Benjamin Franklin
was born in Boston Massachusetts on
January 17th
17:06 his father Josiah was a candle
maker who was married twice and fathered
17 children the youngest was Benjamin as
he described himself he was the youngest
son of the youngest son five generations
back now you can almost imagine him
can't you zipping around the streets of
Boston a young inquisitive child with
poor eyesight the runt of the litter but
he was always searching for adventure
from an early age young Ben Franklin
displayed an almost unquenchable thirst
for invention as a story from Vince
childhood that foreshadows the man he
would ultimately become he and his
friends were swimming at one of their
favorite swimming holes when suddenly
Ben began to swim it almost supernatural
speed only when he pulled himself to
shore did he display the real source of
his aquatic abilities now he had
attached flipper like sandals to his
feet and paddle like gloves to his hand
on another occasion he even attached a
kite to himself and the wind pulled them
across the water while he floated on his
back already at such a young age
Ben Franklin was experimenting with
novel devices it would be a love affair
that would last a lifetime
Ben's early interest in kites and an
electricity developed into endeavors and
future inventions that would benefit the
entire world once when a traveling
showman came through town and
demonstrated static electricity
Franklin was amazed and he and his
friends began to experiment with
electricity like no one else had done
before he even developed words
associated with electricity like
positive and negative and words like
battery and charges Ben Franklin also
invented the lightning rod which he knew
would attract lightning and then diffuse
it harmlessly into the ground thus
pairing whatever structure the lightning
rod was attached to Ben's most famous
discovery involving electricity was
performed with an audience of only one
other person his son William
turbulent clouds gathered over
Philadelphia in June 17:52 when Benjamin
and william released a silk kite into
the sky during a lightning storm
franklin had attached a metal wire to
the top of the kite and tied a key to
the bottom of the kite string with
Lightning flashing all around the kite
then noticed the filaments of the kite
string beginning to bristle he then
extended his knuckle toward the key at
the end of the string and an electric
spark jolted his body electricity had
traveled from the Lightning down along
the kite string thus shocking him when
he touched the metal key now others had
previously hypothesized a relationship
between lightning and so-called electric
fire but Franklin was the first to
design an experiment to prove the
connection his experiment showed that
electricity was a force of nature and
like gravity could have enormous benefit
if it could be tamed and made practical
franklin's scientific experiments made
him famous in America and a celebrated
hero across Europe down the road amazing
another one of Franklin's early
endeavors to serve his fellow man was
the establishment of the Philadelphia
hospital to help those in need here we
are at the hospital that Ben Franklin
helped create in 1751 the first one of
its kind in what would be the United
States when the hospital was founded
Franklin shows an interesting logo for
its seal the picture of the Good
Samaritan from the Bible caring for and
placing the injured stranger on a donkey
on it was the verse from Luke 10:35 take
care of him and I will repay thee almost
in the old men
soon after his departure from the
printing business Ben Franklin moved
into politics and diplomacy his most
notable service in domestic politics was
his reform of the postal system as the
friction between the colonies and the
United Kingdom continued to worsen Ben
Franklin struggled to keep the peace
representing the colonies interests in
London and parents eventually Franklin
knew that independence was the only
course of action for the struggling
colonists with a heart weary but a
spirit unbowed
he returned to Philadelphia and was
promptly chosen as a member of the
Continental Congress where he assisted
in drafting the Declaration of
Independence and later coming out of
retirement in 1787 Franklin was
appointed as a delegate to the meetings
that would produce the United States
Constitution serving his country yet
again with distinction Benjamin Franklin
became the only founding father to sign
all three of the major documents that
laid the groundwork for the nation that
would become the United States the
Declaration of Independence the Treaty
of Paris in the US Constitution I'm here
at Christchurch burial ground in
Philadelphia where Benjamin Franklin is
buried he died on April 17th
17:09 at the age of 84 he had lived an
incredible and action-packed life long
too because at that time the average
lifespan was only 35 years and despite
his extraordinary achievements he still
thought of himself as an ordinary
individual one who trusted the common
man and was comfortable with the idea
that it was the everyday citizens that
made America strong
you
[Music]
