this is the true story of Hannah
Cornelius a kind adventurous and
selfless young woman someone that's had
a bright life ahead of her with so much
more to give her fellow humans animals
and the world but after giving her
friend a lift home one night four men
descended on her car what would become
of Hannah
[Music]
behind me another
viewer discretion is advised for this
educational documentary welcome or
welcome back to dark case documentaries
I bring you True Crime disturbing
stories and other things that you may
later regret knowing with regular
uploads every week please do join a
quickly growing incredibly supportive
dark case family by hitting subscribe
now and turning on notifications
remember choosing to be kind can save a
life in many ways thank you so much for
choosing to be here with me our love and
respect goes out to those that new and
loved Hannah and all those affected by
this case
Hannah Cornelius was born on February
the 12th 1996 in Cape Town South Africa
born to Willem a magistrate and Anna a
lawyer she grew up in a stable and happy
family she was kind intelligent and very
hard-working in the summer of 2015
Hannah started her bachelor's degree at
Stellenbosch University she loved her
studies and quickly adapted to
university life she lived at the Irene
ladies resident in Stellenbosch which
was nearby in her spare time she
volunteered at the tears Animal
Sanctuary in Cape Town she was also very
sociable and made friends easily whilst
University her willingness to help
others out and her happy personality
made it easy for her to connect with
other people in her second year at
University she met cheslin Marsh a
fellow student studying theology they
quickly became close friends but no one
could have anticipated what they would
go on to endure together on Friday the
26th of May 2017 Hannah and cheslin were
out for drinks with friends they were in
their second year of University and
after a long week of studying and
working hard they were blowing off some
steam as the evening Drew to a close
cheslyn offered to walk Hannah back to
her residence
Stellenbosch located just east of Cape
Town is a University Town surrounded by
hundreds of Vineyards many of which play
Parts in South Africa's famous wine
industry the oak shaded streets aligned
with Boutique cafes and galleries but
these shaded streets are also dangerous
streets for a girl walking alone Hannah
gratefully accepted his offer of company
and they made it back to her residence
without any trouble however Hannah as
caring as she was was concerned about
cheslin getting home safely despite his
insistence that he would be fine riding
his longboard home Hannah offered to
drive him back in in her car which was
parked just around the corner Hannah
drove an old blue and white Volkswagen
City Golf a car that her 90 year old
grandmother had gifted to her she loved
driving anyway and it would take her no
time at all to drop him off cheslin
eventually accepted her offer and the
two drove off towards his home at around
3 23 a.m on a Saturday morning Hannah
parked her car on a small patch of grass
while she and cheslin said their
goodbyes she wasn't parked up for long
not long enough to notice the four men
walking by their car along the road they
didn't notice the group the first time
they passed by the car they also didn't
notice them as they approached the car
for a second time using a nearby truck
for cover the four men pounced in just a
split second the passenger door was
ripped open a sharpened screwdriver and
a flip knife were pressed against both
their necks the situation became very
serious and very real very very fast and
the four men forced themselves into the
vehicle before they could do anything to
stop it Hannah and cheslyn were both
real-time victims of carjacking after a
search to find in claimed control of the
car keys one of the four men a 29 year
old Nashville Julius left unfortunately
this wasn't a sign of Mercy everyone
else stayed inside the car Hannah was
forced to sit in between the two front
seats she was flanked by two unknown
assailants cheslin was being pinned by
the third in the back just 17 minutes
after they had pulled up at 3 40 AM
Hannah's Volkswagen Golf drove away
neither cheslin nor Hana knew the nights
that they were in for sadly this was
just the beginning Hannah's vehicle then
wasn't seen for around an hour but at 4
34 am it was spotted by a surveillance
camera at a petrol station a station
located just outside of Stellenbosch
somewhere along the dusty road out of
town the men had stopped the vehicle and
forced cheslin into the boot of the car
they frisked him for everything that he
had including his jacket and shoes as
the car arrived at the petrol station a
figure in a cream-colored jacket can be
seen in the passenger seat and a
surveillance camera inside the station
captures Vernon with buoy entering the
shop with a wallet the wallet belonged
to cheslin with cheslin's bank card and
pin at the ready he was ready to rinse
it unfortunately after multiple attempts
to access his bank account it appeared
as thy cheslin and lied about the pin
number an action he would later pay for
dearly after re-entering the vehicle the
five of them continued their journey to
cry Fontaine this is a neighboring town
to Stellenbosch during this entire
horrific car ride with chess Lynn still
in the boot Hannah remained in the front
of her grandmother's car surrounded it
on all sides by three unknown and
dangerous men she was compliant and
Cooperative not looking around arguing
or fighting instead she stared Straight
Ahead into the dark Road Hannah did
everything right the men made several
trips around the local area stopping
infrequently to visit various people
these were most likely illicit substance
pickups and drop-offs during this time
cheslin was still in the boot trying to
kick the door open whenever he thought
the men weren't around but his attempts
were fruitless he was trapped and
helpless that was until 5 30 am when
suddenly the men stopped the car just
outside of kraaifontaine Hannah asked
the men what they were stopping for and
they told her they were just going for a
smoke break they told her they would be
on their way soon and would return her
car when they got to their final
destination it was at that moment that
two of the men got out of the car went
around the back and removed cheslin from
the trunk this wasn't a smoke break they
were clearly mad that he hadn't given
them the correct pin number this was
Revenge cheslin was pushed shoved and
screamed at and found himself lying on
the dusty ground three men standing over
him with bricks in their hands cheslin
knew this was the end as the morning sun
began to climb over the horizon horrors
of the night were still in full momentum
for Hannah and unfortunately it would
only get worse driving not far from
where the men left cheslin the group
then traveled to an unused paintball
course along bottle Ray Road here Hannah
was assaulted and violated by all three
men though this wasn't the end of her
ordeal sadly things would get a lot
worse next they drove the stolen car and
the terrified 20 when you're all to a
Vineyard as daylight flooded the farms
and Savannahs of South Africa a young
couple had awoken to a fresh spring
weekend living in their quaint home
along the outskirts of kraaifontaine the
sounds of birds traveled throughout the
air but alongside these familiar
peaceful sounds a distant groaning
slowly began to cut through that
groaning soon turned into desperate
screens peering outside of their window
the couple spotted a young man he was
Dazed confused and covered in a red
substance remarkably it was cheslin
despite taking several bricks to the
head and permanently losing the hearing
in one ear he was alive and his mind was
as clear as anything with his friend
nowhere to be found he knew he needed to
seek help he had stumbled down the road
to find the closest sign of humanity
that he could find and luckily he found
a couple willing to help within many is
cheslin was pleading with local police
to help find Hannah he described the
faces of the four men he described the
car all of the locations visited that
night anything else he could remember
from the night before he desperately
wanted to help find his friend Hannah
but tragically it was already too late
just two hours earlier whilst he was
still unconscious Hannah had already
been found she was already gone police
went out in a Relentless search to find
cheslin and Hannah's abductors they
didn't need to look very hard the men
had continued on their crime spree that
morning they had reportedly chased down
a woman on her way to work before
robbing her of her bag and her cell
phone at 1pm that very same day they
attacked yet another woman this time
kidnapping her surveillance cameras
captured the car at a nearby shell pet
station the CCTV shows the blue
Volkswagen pulling into the gas station
the same man that tried to use cheslin's
bank cards exited the car he made his
way to an ATM and attempted to withdraw
money from the woman's account this time
he was successfully able to withdraw 3
000 Rand they rewarded the victim's
cooperation by abandoning her on a rural
road they then dropped off one of the
assailants at his home with only two
continuing to drive around into the late
evening these two men were Vernon witbui
and Geraldo Parsons little did they know
that the police had already been alerted
to their movements throughout that day
and now they were closing in just one
hour later an undercover police vehicle
spotted the missing car driving by and
as the pursuit began a second police van
joined in on the chase desperately
trying to evade law enforcement the men
inside the blue Volkswagen Golf pull
into the driveway of a nearby private
Farm the two men made a run for it
warned sprinting and jumping into the
river below but this was ultimately in
vain they got themselves trapped and
could not escape from the officers many
of them were now hot on their tail armed
and ready to fire their sick and twisted
game was now finally over following the
arrests both whitbury and Geraldo were
more than happy to name the other two
men behind the terrible crimes this led
to two more arrests the very next day
Nashville Julius Geraldo Parsons Eben
van niekerk Vernon whippery these were
the four men responsible for 11 hours of
Terror endured by cheslin and Hannah in
May of 2018 the court proceedings would
finally begin against the men who took
the life of hammer and attempted to take
the life of cheslin the evidence against
them was solid they had testimonies
confessions from both Vernon and Geraldo
surveillance footage forensic evidence
and most importantly cheslin who took
the stand during court he explained they
were taking me into the bushes and then
they told me I should lay my head on a
piece of brick that's when I realized
these people are going to take my life
away and as I was laying on the brick I
closed my eyes and prayed and asked the
Lord for forgiveness for whatever I did
in this life they didn't expect cheslin
to survive they left him there for dead
Geraldo Parsons took to the stand and
explained that they didn't intend to
then kill Hannah he alleges that the
terrified 21 year old offered to have
intimate relations with the men if in
return they wouldn't take her life they
then took it in turns to violate her
they then put her in the boots of her
own car and drove her to a nearby
Vineyard Parsons told the court she
didn't want to climb out of the boot she
was holding on to the car she started
panicking Eben came up and jabbed her I
let her go as the blood started to spill
then I saw Vernon arrive with a rock I
told Vernon don't kill her we've already
killed cheslin let's leave her but
Vernon threw the rock on Hannah's head
this rock was 42 kilograms around 92
pounds the impact would have been so
great that the injuries would have been
immediate and final although this case
was clearly stacked against these four
men only two of them would confess in
fact all four of them pled not guilty to
their crimes throughout these Court
appearances it appeared as if these men
had very little remorse for their
actions they even smiled and laughed
throughout the trial But ultimately
Vernon whippery Geraldo Parsons IBN van
niekerk and Nashville Julius was
sentenced to life in prison and Julius
was sentenced to 22 years for aiding and
abetting do you think the punishment
fits the crime here what do you think
could be done to avoid something like
this happening again in the future let
me know down in the comments please do
hit like if you appreciate what I'm
doing here thank you to everyone in the
dark case crew you too can be kind of
thank you to everyone in a dark case
crew you too can become a channel member
for just 99p a huge thank you to my
patrons your support makes a massive
difference you too can support my work
and be thanks in every video for just
five dollars per month so thank you too
Rachel David Kathy green David James
Addie Alexander Karen Jones El palmeri
James Harrington Shane Woodward faster
River Stacy Kroger summer Chambers Mona
Corona cepheid variable Anthony Watson
Jason coward Guardian paler Jeremy
sabrinek Joy Burton Dawn crock Michelle
Nims Natalie Quest Anita Ford and
Darlene be careful out there and I'll
see you soon
