one of the most controversial things
that I talk about on this channel and
especially on Tick Tock is scripting
your documentary I find it hilarious
because everybody always says the same
exact thing if you're scripting your
documentary then it's not a documentary
it's reality TV but what you're not
understanding is that almost every
single documentary that you see has a
script or at least a treatment now
that's not every single documentary but
the majority of them do that doesn't
mean that you're feeding lines to your
subjects or telling them exactly what to
say however think of your documentary
script like a guy it's supposed to be
there to help you shape your story it's
not a rule that you have to strictly
abide by or to put words into your
character's mouths having a documentary
script believe it or not will help you
save time money and allow you to overall
be more efficient than if you were to
just grab your camera run out your house
and go film something and the only
reason why I know this is because I've
done that I went out and I followed
people for weeks at a time and I got
back to the editing room and I'm like
yeah maybe 20 of this works the rest is
all garbage the rest is useless So today
we're going to talk about how to write
an effective documentary script that
actually helps you tell better stories
and finish your films
before we get into talking about writing
a script there's a few very important
things that you should do first number
one is Define your story in one or two
sentences the truth is if you can't do
this then your story is too complicated
let's take my docu-series along the goat
for example this is a story about a gym
that has become breeding ground for
young and up-and-coming Fighters This
series will follow them on their journey
to become the greatest of all time
simple two sentences that tells you
exactly what this series is about if you
can do that if you can sum up your story
in just one or two sentences then that's
a good indication that you have
something that's digestible and easy to
pitch the second thing that I always
suggest is doing pre-interviews with
your subjects this will allow you to get
to know them and ask them questions
questions about their life and their
journey and what they're trying to
accomplish my advice is to do this with
as many characters in your documentary
as possible that way you get to know
them and their role in the overall Story
Once you have all of this done now
you're ready to start your script
there's literally no way you're going to
be able to predict the outcome of this
documentary but the goal is to give your
best guess as to where you think this
story could go so coming back to my
document series of all the goat I would
start my script by introducing some of
the characters and how their lives are
intertwined with each other for your
documentary maybe it's where the main
character started their Journey or
talking about their childhood or the
Catalyst that got them to embark on this
journey in the first place law the goat
is a dreamer's story this is about
Fighters putting it all on the line and
sacrificing everything to obtain their
dream it's important to think about the
theme of your story what is the main
human emotion that you're trying to
Showcase and think about how you're
going to write that into the First Act
of your film once I have the main
characters established and we've set the
stage for the world that our audience is
going to be in we then need to introduce
the conflict
[Music]
and this could be where your character
faces their biggest adversity for law
the goat this could be an injury or
maybe even one of the fighters losing
and then you start to have your first
problem in your story you might have a
very obvious problem that you introduce
or you might have to create this
illusion for this adversity or
exaggerate my suggestion is to figure
out what your character's problem is or
what you think it could be and how you
think they would respond to this how
would this problem affect them and
remember we're writing a script based on
what we think and how we perceive the
situation is going to be and pan out but
the truth is is that all of this has to
be subject to change because they might
not react the way you think they might
encounter an entirely different problem
than what you're writing and that's okay
you just have to remember that these are
the basic ideas that are going to take
you through the different steps of this
journey so try to remember that you have
to be flexible
[Music]
now that we've introduced the conflict
it's time for our character to start
taking action how are they fighting back
you need to highlight the showdown
between your main character and their
enemy or the emotion or whatever problem
this whole thing has been leading up to
they need to be able to go Toe to Toe
and have this battle that's what you
need to Showcase in this third Act is it
a competition that's been something that
we've been building up for or are they
on the precipice of catching the
criminal in your true crime documentary
whatever it is that your character is up
against they eventually have to go
toe-to-toe and that needs to be written
in your script and again it might change
it might be something that you think is
gonna happen and it might be something
completely different but at least you
know the story beats and how it's going
to get there
final thing that you script is the
outcome of this battle and just as I
said before you take your best guess of
what you think is gonna happen and you
play it out in your head now let's just
say for example one of the fighters that
I'm documenting I have in the ending
that he wins but he actually loses
well you have two options number one you
flip the script and you still interview
all the same people and instead of it
being a happy ending it's more of an
ending that's real and maybe left on a
sad note or that could be the big
adversity that you've been waiting for
that you could actually follow up with
and that's something that I've actually
gone through and a great example of how
you can be flexible in your storytelling
and in your script writing and remember
that everything that you're scripting
everything that you're writing down
could still be used you just have to
frame it differently you have to be
moldable and shapeable and flexible to
tell this story what I like to do with
the ending is come full circle with the
theme of the story what is that
Universal human emotion that you nod to
in the end for me and law the goat a
fighter winning or losing doesn't affect
the fact that this is a dreamer story
and sometimes dreams don't come true and
if it does then it's a beautiful story
but if it doesn't it's still a great
story worth telling so try to ask
yourself what is the emotion that you're
trying to Showcase last week I put out a
poll trying to figure out the kind of
content that you guys are struggling
with and by far the most requested
content was storytelling and honestly I
was pleasantly surprised because I
really didn't think that this was
something that you guys are interested
in and I'm glad because this is by far
the most important aspect of filmmaking
is figuring out how to tell good
Universal stories and I'm totally aware
that this video might not get a ton of
views and I'm fully aware that script
writing and writing in general could be
boring for your average filmmaker but it
is a very important aspect of filmmaking
and one that needs to be paid attention
to I also asked you guys last week and
I'm going to continue to ask you guys
through the weeks ahead on my
documentary videos what would you guys
like to learn in a documentary course
more than anything I want to know from
you guys what are the things that you
need to be able to tell better stories
and finish your doc Americans and you
know a lot of you guys on that pull put
storytelling and I'm I'm very glad about
that but if you guys can drop in the
comments down below specific things that
you would like in this documentary
course I really want to know and I
really want to add that and Implement
that into this course and give you guys
something of value that actually works
specifically for you so I'd like to
thank you guys for watching this video
don't forget to like And subscribe to
the channel if you haven't already and
I'll catch you guys in the next one
deuces
foreign
[Music]
