hello viewers so TB Joshua's wife has
finally spoken up about the allegations
against her husband and she actually
said it in a trendy video now when she
was preaching in church and her message
is talking about staying away from
foolish people and she said that all
what bisa said in the BBC interview we
all lies against her husband and she's
actually claiming that she gangle with
others to tell lies against TB Joshua
and many people are asking could this be
true because from what she said she said
even when bisa came to The Synagogue
Church of all Nations she was already
married and came to be helped by the
prophet and actually made advances
towards TB Joshua but he denied giving
her any opportunity and because she
could no longer stay because he did not
even look at her she left and as since
then be lying about the prophet I will
show us this clip from what she said
about bisa and other disciples watch
this video guys over the years she tried
to make me a friend I said you cannot be
my friend because she doesn't know
anything about me today she can't say
anything about me because she doesn't
know
me and
so we begin to live in the synagogue I
saw
her
and I thank God that the prophet did not
give it to our
foolishness keep away from foolish
people stay away from them so that you
don't become what they
are when her time came to leave the
synagogue she
started the prophet is this the prophet
is that that and this he has no wife he
has no child I said all those times that
used to come come to my tiny sitting
room to come and tell me this one
happened h m said you don't know what is
happening oh this one happened I said I
don't look at those things though in
fact I don't see
them who was
I who was n to you then but you know
what with all she has said in this word
about Prophet J I'm expecting her to say
one
thing why did the prophet spot at you
publicly in this
church spot at your face publicly you
had a pro a pastor talking touch me here
touch me there this is a woman that
would say come and touch my breast she
has
boil oh there's cramp come and pray for
me stay away from foolish people so this
is actually what she's saying concerning
the claim that c Joshua molested his
disciples even Bola and this is actually
her response to it I'll be showing to us
some people's reactions on this on
YouTube where the video was posted
reacting to this on YouTube this person
here said nothing can ever change my
mind about my TB Joshua he is the most
anointed man of God I have met very
generous full of humility and he likes
doing things the way God wants it even
if it's against himself some people can
talk or say anything I do know that some
people are not humans probably Demons
Inside them so this is actually coming
from this person here on YouTube another
person here reacted and said even after
death he is still reigning what a mighty
God we have that has worked wonders
through his son CB Joshua H another
person here also also reacted and said
thank you Mama we know our father the
devil cannot change our mind the devil
knows what is coming revival is coming
Sons and Daughters of our Prophet God is
busy anointing his people H another
person also reacted and said she just
said nothing other than casting as
passions on bisa as leader of the church
and being a woman you have to set up a
panel to investigate these allegations
to unravel the truth about those
allegations against your husband
anything elide that is just living in
Deni and cover up H another person here
also reacted and said Christians who
adore the prophets more than God they
defend men more than sound Doctrine it's
a Pity to watch how instead of asking
God for discernment the TB Joshua f are
quick to refer to the victims as actors
when we people learn may God keep on
masking the Wolves let he who has an ear
hear what the spirit is saying to the
church so this is actually coming from
another person who is not even buying
what ti Joshua's wife is saying because
some of them are saying she's just out
there casting as passions on bisa
instead of talking about the real matter
what about other people who came out to
share their own experiences and how TI
Joshua molested them and all the evils
they claim is going on in Synagogue
Church what about them you didn't say
anything about them you are busy talking
about bisa was he bisa that actually
organized all these persons to come and
speak up against TB Joshua these are the
questions that people are asking and our
person here also reacted and said our
prophet Joshua is such a powerful and
wonderful Prophet Rich children of God
knows who he is it's NN of our business
to convince the world or soall Christian
we love and respect Prophet Tibi Joshua
always and person here also reacted and
said Mama EVN it is your ministry they
are fighting but the one in you is
greater than the one in the world H
another person here also reacted and
said God of prophet TI Joshua will
punish TI Joshua's enemies just watch
and pray I will never give up on Squan
and no one will divide Squan not even
BBC I know God of T Joshua is already in
control also reacting to this another
person here said Mama EVN be wise and
strong they are not happy that the
ministry is standing well even when the
man is is gone please throw the part of
your husband which is heavy silence
foolish people everywhere so this person
here is saying regardless of all the
attacks that is coming at this point in
time the wife should not respond to them
but should maintain silence just like TI
Joshua always does even when he was
alive when they were accusing him also
reacting to this another person here
said I don't blame her afterwards she's
safeguarding the investment her husband
left behind for her and her children the
major source of income take a look at
the congregation alone brainwashing must
continue as long as she can get away
with it h another person also reacted
and said if all they have been seen are
lies why are you defending it and how
can a good number of people come out and
just organize lies about someone like
that and this is actually one question
that people are asking this is not just
bisola alone this is a whole number of
people plenty persons that actually
pointing accusing finger on this person
and person also reacted and said so all
these people from different places
confirming what abisa said long time ago
before BBC reports all lying but
pictures of abysa figure to already
married when she came to synagogue is
not friendly to your claims H another
person here also reacted and said shame
on you you are covering for your late
husband God's judgment will come upon
you in such a way that you would't
expect just watch and wait for it you
are just compounding the issue you never
address issues raised and person also
said your husband was better at telling
lies no aspect of the accusations has
been contested you should repent the
reality will soon set in when the victim
Sue TB Joshua's estate including the
church you can deceive your congregation
but not everybody you had better start
selling your properties outside Nigeria
including South Africa so this is
actually what people are saying they're
saying she's just trying to cover up for
husband why some persons are saying that
all of this accusation are actually gang
up from the pit of Hell we can't tell
the one that is actually true and that's
why we are saying at this point in time
we just hope at the end of the day the
truth of the matter will come out and
also popular Big Brother NASA who is
known as fraud have come out to say that
tib Joshua is his Prophet that TI Joshua
PID paid his school fee in 2010 and also
gave him 8,000 n on a daily basis see
the way this online influencer reported
what fraud said he said TB Joshua paid
my University scholarship gave me 8,000
n every day in 2010 Big Brother n Justa
fraud so this is actually coming from
fraud he's saying that everything on the
internet and nothing but lies that t
Joshua is a real man of God and one that
helped him in 2010 to pay for his school
fee and people have actually been
reacting to this I will show us people's
reaction on this this person here said
it doesn't negate the fact that he did
all those other bad things as well H so
this person here is saying the fact that
he paid your school fee does not change
the fact that he molested those women
does not change the fact that other
things that were said about him are
actually true H another person also
reacted and said that does not mean that
he did not assault all those women I
wish someone organized a documentary for
people to also share the good things he
did for them we can't let BBC win this
so this person here is saying that they
wish that another documentary can be
done on all their lives that TB Joshua
help on all the lives that he
transformed with his good works another
person he also reacted and said I hope
you guys understand he could have done
all those and still be what they said he
was open your mind H even evil people do
good too I'm not saying he's guilty or
innocent no one knows yet but this
shouldn't be a reason to say he's not
capable of doing all the the bad things
and the real Christians can't even do
half of what he did but they will say
he's not a
Christian also reacting to this another
person here said that doesn't still make
him a good man those were his tricks to
cover up his evil acts by being generous
with money he got from people's
donations not his personal money even
devil did good to people and he's still
doing it for those who seek and believe
him there is lines between being
devilish and being generous you can be
human and still be ungodly there's a
tein line between humanity and godliness
H another person also reacted and said
many will come and say Lord Lord did we
not do Miracles and good things in your
name and he will say depart from me you
workers of iniquity God judges the heart
not the outward Shenanigans another
person here said the ways of God are not
the ways of man and we haven't seen
anything yet more people will be coming
out one after the other to speak on how
TI Joshua healed them and changed their
lives for good thank you my brother
fraud for coming out to clear the air TB
Joshua's Legacy lives on and this is one
thing about this whole matter because
many persons are supporting TB Joshua
while a whole lot of people too are
actually on the sides of the victim
saying that he truly committed the
crimes that they accused him of and
Nigerians are asking what could be the
truth of all this we will keep updating
you on this and give you new sight on
this story on a daily basis thank you so
much guys for watching this video please
do well to share your thoughts about the
video in the comments section please do
all to like this video and please do all
to subscribe to our Channel if you are
yet to subscribe so you get updates
whenever we post a new video
