this is a docking station and I've done
over two and a half million dollars in
sales with it and in today's video I
want to go over how I went from zero to
that two and a half million dollars so I
make a lot of videos on my Channel about
projects that sell and how to make money
woodworking Etc I thought it would be
very necessary to tell this product
story of how I went from that zero to
two and a half million dollar Mark and
all the trials and tribulations that
came along the way that really
catapulted me from being that hobbyist
woodworker to that more professional
style woodworker and all the luck that I
had along the way to get to that point
because trust me it wasn't all skill it
wasn't all knowledge and so I just felt
almost obligated to tell you this story
because there's so much value packed
into it whether you're a small hobbyist
woodworker a weekend warrior or you own
a full-time business so stay tuned and
once again I hope you grab a lot of
value from this video this means a lot
to me and kind of my whole company so
thanks for watching let's get right into
it
thank you
I'm Ryan drapella I'm 27 years old I'm
from the small town of Ocampo Texas and
then I'm a CEO of Frio coolers drapella
works and cutting it close so the
product is called a docking station or a
phone Dock and I've actually coined the
term man stand because mostly women
bought it for their husband or their
boyfriend to put it on their nightstand
and what it did was it held a phone a
watch a wallet keys all of that stuff so
it kept like it's almost like a
catch-all tray it just was presented in
a very nice way and so we coined the
term man stand but it's really just a
phone docking station or a phone dock
so whenever I got the inspiration for
the man stand I just turned 20 years old
I was a sophomore in college it was 3 30
in the morning and I was bawling my eyes
out in my parents office at the computer
I was doing woodworking for about four
years at that point trying to do it full
time doing it full time and I had to pay
for college my truck just got in a wreck
and so I had
very little money in the bank account
less than 200 bucks and I didn't know
what to do and what I was currently
doing was barely making ends meet and I
was working 60 hours a week while trying
to go to college and it was extremely
rough
so what inspired the design of this
docking station well about a month
earlier I was watching a video over this
one Etsy shop that did over a quarter
million dollars in sales with only one
product and I was like that is awesome
and then I kind of forgot about it and
then when I was just bawling my eyes out
I had that Flash come to me it's like
Ryan why don't you just do that
[Music]
I started kind of Designing one similar
but most of them had two pieces of wood
that kind of slid in together and so
what I did is I knew I had a CNC I cut a
little part out in the center where only
people with the CNC could use it and so
it differentiated the design enough to
where I was different than his and the
one that did multi-million dollars in
sales was my original design I had zero
prototypes that was the one I went with
and that's the one that sold like crazy
did people think it was a good idea oh
oh no absolutely not my parents didn't
think it was a good idea all of my
brothers they still cannot believe it
did what it did
foreign
[Music]
I
didn't think it would go at all who's
going to buy something so stupid
when Ryan first showed me the phone dock
after I got finished laughing
it was
well let's give it a try didn't really
have support from any of the sides they
were like well this is just a little
doodad this is another one of your
hundreds of products you try to design
and it's going to flop but I had a lot
of faith in it nobody in a million years
on my side of the family thought it was
going to do good at all
the tools that I used to make this was
strictly a CNC a router table and a
random orbital sander so I made this out
of a five foot by five foot Baltic Birch
it was a 12 millimeter so which is about
a half inch thick and I made all of my
docking stations out of that from when
it started till even now the first time
I got all the materials from it so I
used to go to this this place called
Houston Hardwoods I had about 120
dollars to my name and I went there and
spent 119.28 on the first five sheets
and we thought oh my God we're gonna get
broke it's we spent a hundred dollars on
plywood I drove back home and was like
this better work and it was so
interesting because we made those first
couple ones out of those five sheets and
I went back two weeks later and bought
13 Sheets with whatever money I had left
it about killed if driving over there
getting those sheets coming back and
cutting out more phone docks and every
time we had a mess up we knew well
that's money out of our pocket
[Music]
[Music]
is the CNC room we originally cut them
all out on this CNC but then after we
got busy we cut them out on that CNC
that you see behind me you can actually
notice on this table where we used to
screw down the plywood to hold it down
before we cut out the original docking
stations that we made until we got that
one which has a vacuum table which held
all our products down a lot easier so it
was my production process efficient
absolutely not but it worked I think
what really helped is I had very low
overhead because I was working out of
some horse stalls and a yard and I
didn't really have you know insurance or
taxes to worry about or stuff like that
so besides the CNC taking a very long
time to cut them out sanding was
probably the second worst
foreign
[Music]
and we literally just put sandpaper
around our fingers and go like this a
whole bunch and then try to get the
corners with our thumb and sand down all
our fingerprints and then we ended up
getting a mouth sander and then an
oscillating sander to actually get those
but the first 500 of them we literally
just sanded with a piece of 180 grit
sandpaper like this and so it took about
10 to 15 minutes to per one we
eventually got that number down to about
five minutes per docking station but the
original was it was brutal so in general
how we finished them is we just put
stain on them that we found at Lowe's
and Home Depot it wasn't fancy stain it
was just Minwax you know penetrating
stain and we used natural golden pecan
dark walnut Red Oak and provincial
that was the five stains we used to
stain them all
[Music]
some of the early challenges that we
faced when they first started selling
and in that first eight weeks that we
unleashed them they sold you know about
fifty thousand dollars in sales and some
of the struggles were like just legitly
that CNC cutting out enough and we'd
have to run it 24 hours a day in order
to cut out enough and we thought we
couldn't really up the speed any when we
first did it we were just going by it
sounds good you know we were cutting it
out it sounds good we found out we
weren't running it fast enough and it
was dulling our bits pretty quick just
getting enough product to sand and ship
out was kind of the issue so we were
selling more than what our capacity was
so we were running 24 hour shifts in
those early days so whenever we first
started with them I already had one
employee and he's still with us today
hi I'm Anthony Rocha I'm 27 years old
been El Campo all my life
and I am a CNC operator we're working
Ryan for about
six or seven years already probably
going on seven
he was originally with me just to help
sand cutting boards and stuff like that
while I was in college he'd be back here
sanding cutting boards I'd come home on
the weekends I blew up cutting boards
and he'd sand them soon enough we were
getting so busy during the week that my
dad would actually come home after work
and program them on the CNC and then cut
them out Ryan was going to college I had
a full-time job
and he was making more money than I was
going to college making these phone docs
and you know I'm thinking what's wrong
with this picture
you know when he was gone we were
getting five or six a week which was you
know pretty good
and then we started getting more and I
would program and go cut them out sand
them stain them and then my mom would
ship them out the next day
I did the all the shipping from right
here the staining the sanding we just
took up the slack to 3 A.M still out
there
sanding and staining they were extremely
helpful in those early stages this was
Anthony with while I was trying to go to
college and put myself through school
they were helping me during the week I'd
come out on weekends I try to pound out
as much as I could and then they would
get any trickle through orders that
happened during the week it was a
certain size where we can just fit it in
a flat rate envelope super cheap to ship
those and so we really got away with not
having to buy boxes or anything like
that and then we started shipping a lot
of them so then we had to call like
corporate and they ship us a whole
pallet of it and then we switch over to
FedEx eventually and then we had to call
FedEx and they'd ship us a whole
18-wheeler load of these envelopes and
they you know obviously stacked really
well and so we just picked the thing
just let an envelope stick a label on it
ship it
[Music]
I started engraving them after that
first full year that really
differentiated myself and taught me a
ton of lessons once I did that and why I
thought of the engraving is I read a
book called How to Win Friends and
Influence People by Dale Carnegie and it
taught me you know the number one thing
to a person is their name so I was like
well I'm just going to sell somebody
their name once I started selling that
my profits margins went up and my sales
doubled overnight once I started adding
personalization I put them on Etsy
because I didn't know how to build a
website I didn't think there were a
store type product and so I just kind of
put them on Etsy and took some good
pictures and just kind of threw them out
there other than that I didn't really do
anything I didn't I ran a couple ads on
Etsy but nothing else no website no
Google ads no stores nothing like that
once again I think it's one of those
luck things that I just happened to
stumble upon Etsy happened to put it on
there and it happened to be a good fit
all right
I came out with it beginning of October
20 2016 within the first eight weeks we
did fifty thousand dollars in sales so
like I was onto something because the
previous year's total I didn't even do
fifteen thousand dollars in sales you
know and then another thing that I did
that really skyrocketed us was I started
offering different colors and nobody
else was offering different colors at
the time that kind of propelled my
product above everybody else when I knew
I was onto something was starting up in
May 2017 it started taking off for
Father's Day two weeks or three weeks
before Father's Day we were getting two
300 orders a day so the rush it's very
hard to put into words you would have to
see it unbelievable
4 30 5 o'clock in the morning I'd be up
at the computer printing label upon
label upon label we were making it and
shipping it and customizing it and
trying to fulfill all the orders and
doing all the customer service which
nobody ever thinks about from the Russia
I would say I have probably worked
around 12 hour days most days and then
they started getting more and more and
more and you know I'd go to work I'd
come home I'd program 25 30 of them a
day and the rush is nuts I mean shipping
wise imagine finding 500 different
people's names in a thing and reading
off of a little piece of paper following
the line like this is Susan and she gets
this color and it's it's shipping to Bob
and spread them out over my whole living
room the whole floor was covered and
then we tried lining them up and we'd
start calling them out and putting on
the labels and then we had Stacks higher
than the sofa
wbl
[Applause]
ah
oh wow I got so comfortable with sanding
that no matter what I did it was
detailing it was messing with the
orbital sander I even did the hand
motions and everything flipped it around
felt it made sure it was right
regardless of what I did I still kept
working despite me sleeping
I was asleep sanding
we went from our first year we did about
fifty thousand dollars in sales the next
year we did 150 the next year we did 450
the next year we did 650 and the next
year we did 1.6 million with just the
docking station
when did I decide to expand that was
always in the back of my head I always
planned on growing this thing to a huge
company you know so expansion was always
in my mind from day one I never thought
to not expand I always told myself that
I'm not smart enough to spend it in a
good way so just reinvest it back into
the business and that's always what I
did I figured there's no 20 year old
that I know that spends money in a good
way and so I was going to make sure I
wasn't going to be that 20 year old that
spent money in a bad way and so
everything I made I just always bought
new equipment and by the time I
graduated college I was able to buy two
acres of land and started building my
dream shop that I'm in now that's kind
of where all the money went I literally
just saved every penny I could you know
even now I still live in a trailer house
behind the shop because now my dream
shop is even bigger than this one and I
have bigger Ambitions and so yeah I just
put everything I could back in the new
equipment and you know just treated
people good
so the product started to fall off
probably the year after covid so the
2021 it started to fall off and that's
when I kind of learned about product
life cycles
why it spiked during 2020 was because
everybody was at home they couldn't see
their dad so they shopped online and I
happened to have a product that works
great for sending to dads you can
customize it tell them I love you Dad or
put dad stuff I love you engraved on it
and then now it still does pretty good
but it doesn't do those numbers that it
did back in the day and you know it's
all about that bell curve and then it
kind of flattening out now there's
thousands of different designs so many
people got in right people usually
destroy good things if you have it so if
you have a good design within three
years there's going to be thousands of
them
foreign
I thought I was just really lucky and
not skilled and I actually had a lot of
really weird issues whereas like am I
good did I just get lucky am I a real
woodworker do I know what I'm doing do I
know to run a business did I just get
lucky with this product and that sat
with me for quite some time even when I
was through college right I was doing
really good it was selling right but I
almost thought it was luck and now after
reflecting back on everything and taking
what I did learn and applying it to my
business now I'm really happy it came
about obviously it built a barn so like
I'm grateful for that but as far as
personal growth goes it helped out a ton
because I I extrapolated so many
different lessons from it that I never
thought I did
people always get mad at me they're like
Ryan what's next what happens when this
burns out and I always told them like I
don't care if it burns out right like
I'm making money from it now and that's
okay and my analogy always give them
since I was raised up on a farm I had to
milk a cow before I went to school I
always told them if the cow is standing
there milk it and get all the milk you
can before she kicks you or she flips
your tail at you and so that was kind of
where I went with this product is like
it's it's it's making money now let's
make sure we make all we can from it and
then we'll figure out the rest
afterwards don't worry about the future
that you cannot predict now just worry
about the present and that has really
helped me when designing new products
and when kind of taking on new
businesses and new business Adventures
family was definitely a crucial part
[Music]
they were always there when I was in
college right my parents were there like
shipping out stuff I actually got my dad
to quit his job whenever I was 21 and
actually start working for me so both of
my parents started working full time for
me whenever I was 21 years old
Ryan had asked me
Dad we're getting busy you know if you
want to quit your job and come help me
uh you know that'd be nice and so it
didn't take long for me to decide they
were super critical during those Rush
times where we had to go from five
employees during the year to 25.
well what I'm impressed is that he's you
know as young as he is
doing what he's doing most of the time
he just see you know older older folks
doing stuff they were always very
supportive of me trying to do something
with my life right trying to put myself
through college
I'm very proud I mean he's come a long
ways and he's
he had the ideas and and you know he did
it and we all pitched in as a family and
you know we all just kind of lift each
other up right and so the rising tide
lifts All Ships and that's what family
is to this business they're the rising
tide that always kind of tries to figure
out a way to help out any way they can
we was riding the wave
all in all this product was an absolute
blessing to me and my family my business
and I wouldn't have it any other way
when those late nights when we were
shipping and we were barely getting to
the post office on time that's when I
came up with the name cutting it close
um because remember if you ain't getting
it close you ain't cutting it right
[Music]
and they would try to catch me there was
a lot of times they'll try to catch me
but by the time they pulled out their
phone I already almost already looking
at them so
they couldn't catch me
why would you actually say it while you
were sleeping like I would
