foreign
[Music]
I Left My Heart in San Francisco
[Music]
a city is so beautiful it's hard to
believe it's real
yet this is the same San Francisco
gritty
dystopian
it's underbelly fully exposed for the
world to see
so what are we to make of this place
for dual realities this extreme exists
side by side
this is San Francisco The Good The Bad
and The Ugly
San Francisco was founded on a Gamble
the population exploded in the 1850s
during the Gold Rush when people from
all corners of the world came in search
of its fortunes
the city was built on a narrow Peninsula
with the San Francisco Bay to the East
and the vast expanse of the Pacific
Ocean to the West
Ameris seven by seven square miles packs
in a dense cityscape built on and around
steep Rolling Hills
foreign
[Music]
Francisco's geography is really unique
and is characterized by its many many
many Hills there's something like 40
plus Hills in the city and as you can
see we are on one right now you really
gotta work your your legs your
hamstrings your butt to make it up them
but it's really common here and it's
just something that makes San Francisco
uniquely San Francisco
[Music]
getting up the hills requires a lot of
work but the really cool thing is once
you make it up them you get rewarded
with views like this right now we're at
Ina coolbuth Park there's amazing
panoramic views all over the city from
here you can see really famous San
Francisco landmarks all of downtown the
Salesforce Tower the Transamerica
Pyramid the Bay Bridge and Coit Tower
it's a really nice place to stop and
relax and Ponder the meaning of life
while observing a beautiful view in
front of you you can see the famous
Alcatraz prison over there and it's
really crazy to think about isn't it
it's a prison on an island in the middle
of the ocean across from a beautiful
dense hilly City
it it doesn't seem real
the Painted Ladies of San Francisco
dolled up in Greens pinks Blues every
color of the rainbow
and all the fashionable frills
minimalism isn't a word that exists in
your world you are the special sauce of
San Francisco what gives the streets of
this city its character and charm
you're full of secrets
carrying the stories of people who have
called you home their paths their
indulgences their sin
layered together these memories reveal
the complex past of an ever-changing
City
[Music]
we're in the hate Ashbury Neighborhood
in San Francisco where there's a high
concentration of Victorian architecture
and a lot of famous artists and
musicians have lived in this
neighborhood and called these colorful
victorians home
Janice Joplin lived here the Grateful
Dead lived here and Jimi Hendrix also
lived here so a lot of greats from the
hippie era
[Music]
between 1850 and 1910 there were an
estimated 40 to 50 000 victorians built
right here in San Francisco and many of
them were destroyed in the 1906
earthquake that is the biggest
earthquake in U.S history but a lot of
them also survived and now San Francisco
has the highest concentration of
Victorian houses anywhere in the world
[Music]
these victorians behind me are some of
our favorites in the entire city they're
called The Four Season victorians and
there's a couple characteristics that
make victorians so special including
ornate details both in and outside so on
the ones behind me you'll see a lot of
flower trimmings for example there's
also gingerbread trimmings a lot of
stained glass windows beautiful bay
windows that create space and give a lot
of beautiful light inside the houses as
well as turrets or these towers that you
see on some of the houses
fact is it okay before I was doing tours
I worked as a handyman and been a lot
done a lot of work in these houses and
it's amazing the level of craftsmanship
on the inside and when you look at a
hardwood floor that's nailed every six
inches with finishing nails done by hand
it's kind of amazing it was all done
with no power tool virtually no power
tools
[Music]
we are now in Alamo Square sitting
across from perhaps the most famous
victorians in all of San Francisco the
colorful painted ladies that were
featured in the opening of the Full
House series
[Music]
every single Victorian in San Francisco
has its own unique stories and this one
behind me is particularly interesting
you can see that it looks like a Gothic
fairy tale mansion
thank you
Charles Manson didn't live here but he
did come visit yeah our host Kelly has
lived in the house for over 20 years
Russians used to operate a bar out of
what is now his bedroom
and this is great the the piano is tuned
[Music]
all right that's the only thing I have
up my sleeves
the Westerfield House was built in the
late 1800s by wealthy German immigrants
it's seen many people come in and out at
stores
the founder of the Church of Satan made
films here has a Charles Manson tie
obviously and it has been home to many
many communes
its most recent owner made it a life
dream to purchase the house planned his
course of action during an acid trip and
has since lovingly restored it staying
true to its historical charm
[Music]
original work yeah I call I don't know I
call this Neptune but it is the original
Woodwork in the house and it's crazy to
think they probably did all this by hand
oh yeah yeah yeah this was Joe
definitely handcrafted this is the only
room that we know that uh somebody was
shot and killed in no way yeah under
what circumstances so this is uh the
breakfast room would have been the
original breakfast room the breakfast
murder room yeah yeah yeah that's before
breakfast yeah
laughs
[Music]
every major city in the world has one
the neighborhood that's a little rough
around the edges
the one the guidebooks tell you to skip
in San Francisco
that place is the tenderloin
so a lot of first-time visitors to San
Francisco don't realize that it's
actually a really gritty town and this
is kind of Ground Zero of that we are in
the tenderloin neighborhood which is
where a lot of the city's homeless
crisis is there's a lot of open drug use
and drug dealing and there's a lot of
crime here and people who come here
don't really know what to make of it and
it's located right in the heart of the
city right next to downtown in the major
shopping districts but there's really a
lot of different sides to San Francisco
there's the quirky architecture there's
all the history and the culture the
beautiful landscapes and then there's
this side which is a very real part of
the city as well
during the late 1800s the tenderloin
flourished as the raucous entertainment
Hub of the city
the party was abruptly halted by the
1906 earthquake which reduced vast
sections of San Francisco to Rubble the
tenderloin no exception
the neighborhood was quickly rebuilt and
among the Reconstruction came affordable
housing in the form of single room
occupancies
over the years a proliferation of
brothels porn theaters and a legal
gambling establishments transformed the
tenderloin into a caricature of Vice
fast forward to today and this
reputation remains so embedded in the
neighborhood's ethos that it is even
reflected in its name and Legend has it
that the tenderloin was coined back in
1876 by a corrupt police chief named
Alexander Williams now Chief Williams
was transferred from a more affluent
part of the city into the tenderloin and
would take bribes from the local
businesses mostly brothels in exchange
for police protection and he said
something along the lines of I used to
only be able to afford chuck steak with
my salary now with the bribes I'll be
able to afford chores deer cuts of meat
like the tenderloin and that's how the
myth goes and the name has stuck
foreign
[Music]
this is one of my first times walking
through the streets of the tenderloin we
usually just drive through and it's
really crazy I mean we get a little
desensitized to it in San Francisco but
you definitely don't see stuff like this
everywhere
the national media fixates on the
tenderloin and their claims are not
wrong
residents here sidestep encampments open
drug use and filth on the streets on
their way to work or school and running
a business here comes with its own
struggles
this is a really nice local market you
don't see a lot of full grocery stores
in the tenderloin it's usually a lot of
corner stores and there's kind of a food
desert here and establishments like this
provide fresh produce and fresh meat for
the neighborhood so what is it like to
work here just day to day our business
is slow down right
the people camping in front of our store
right so there's a lot of theft going on
yeah and then also just all the stuff on
the street prevents people from actually
coming in the store so it really impacts
businesses they feel no step when they
do this this way they go to another
another store do you feel safe working
here
uh no no no because you know when they
come to steal we have um fighting with
them right yeah yeah it's terrible and
do you think the local government helps
at all like do you see any government
action so try to help your business no
no even I call the police they don't
want to come we just call every day but
no one to come
yeah and then on that there's no
business
yeah well I'm really sorry to hear that
it's too bad yeah and do you live in the
tenderloin I have the little the I have
to move out of this area right now let
my daughter see every day that I did
please help us to yeah bring our
customers here
[Music]
[Music]
thank you
[Music]
[Music]
in the 1970s an influx of immigrants
from Southeast Asia arrived in the
tenderloin many of them were from
Vietnam Cambodian and Laos and they were
escaping the violence of warfare as well
as communist regimes so many of them
made their way to this neighborhood
because it was affordable there were a
lot of single room occupancies in the
neighborhood as well as low-cost housing
this wave of immigration brought us
tenderloins Little Saigon district and
restaurants like this one fall 2000 an
unassuming hole in the wall where
anti-serva Vietnamese Classics like thaw
and rice dishes when these immigrants
arrived in the tenderloin in the 70s the
neighborhood was essentially a concrete
jungle there were no playgrounds there
were no schools there weren't a lot of
grocery stores selling fresh produce so
these newcomers came and they built
businesses and restaurants that's one
example of how these communities have
made their Mark here
on the menu fresh spring rolls with
shrimp and sliced pork
and Pho with sliced beef tripe and other
fun bits perhaps the best bowl of fall
you can find in the city
this is a really beautiful bowl of
classic Vietnamese faux it's perfect for
this cold foggy day in San Francisco
[Music]
tenderloin is a neighborhood with big
problems that's undeniable
but multiple truths can co-exist and
there are parts that are full of life
and there's a community here actively
dedicated to making it a better place
so the tenderloin is home to a lot of
families and a lot of children and we're
standing outside of a playground and
it's a weekend day it's very bustly and
active there's a lot of people in there
and we were just talking to some members
of tenderloin safe passage and
essentially what they do is they hang
out outside the playground they're
familiar with their surroundings the
community people in the playground and
they just hang out and make sure that
everything is safe and that the
residents of the tenderloin are able to
enjoy a nice day at the playground so
that's very cool at a program like that
exists here
so how long have you lived in the
tenderloin I've been down here and seen
the change of everything my whole life
and
it's gotten better and worse to just
depending on Dynamics
yeah you know the homeless and the
street value it's gotten worse to a
point but it just it's it's still
everybody's still out here and still
moving and still walking and still
trying yeah and what do you think a lot
of people in the media
understand
like actually watching how everything is
moving we're actually getting in touch
and knowing people outside they just
judge a book by its cover right you know
and that's the worst thing because a lot
of these people there's a lot of people
that are in a messed up situation and
when you really talk to them they'll
tell you I have an apartment I have I
get checks but their mindset their
rather be where they're at not under
government's eyes paying taxes and doing
all that what do you wish people knew
about the tenderloin
I wish people knew that there was more
in the tenderloin than just homelessness
within just poverty and and drugs you
know I wish people would actually see
the light
[Music]
San Francisco is a city with a lot of
problems there's a lot of poverty and
blatant inequality at the same time it
is really naturally beautiful and full
of culture and history and a community
that's really invested in making it a
better place
so I would say San Francisco is a city
like any other it has its good it's bad
it's uglies it's just a little bit more
extreme than most places you would find
[Music]
[Music]
