[Music]
it is an Autumn morning 105 BC from his
Camp positioned near the rone river
Roman Commander quintus cilius Kio
waited in anticipation for the looming
battle an enormous Roman army numbering
over 100,000 including camp followers
faced a tribal Force led by the kimry
king BoRics and Tuton King tabot then
their Warriors presented an overwhelming
challenge numbering over
200,000 as the Romans faced the imminent
Clash a Discord had already emerged
among their ranks capio and Consul nius
malus Maximus driven by personal
ambition found themselves at odds
despite malus's plea for cooperation
Capo's refusal resulted in disjointed
Roman forces as time progressed more and
more kiman Warriors surrounded the Roman
camps as the battle became inevitable
the repercussions of the fractured Roman
command unfolded with capio hoping for
malus's support in the face of the
impending kiman
assault in the 2 Century BC the European
continent bore witness to a tapestry of
tribes and cultures at the heart of it
all stood Rome the emerging Juggernaut
of antiquity but beyond the reach of
Roman dominance in the shadowed corners
of this ancient continent lay a
multitude of tribes each with their own
stories customs and aspirations amidst
this Patchwork of peoples one name
stirred both curiosity and alarm the
kimry hailing from the distant reaches
of Northern Jutland in the late 2
Century BC they embarked on a migration
that sent ripples of unease through
Europe's tribal Landscapes they were but
one of many tribes indiscriminately
raiding any others they came across the
sby Tuton semon marom mani and Bo to
name just a few the kimry led by their
King BoRics continued their Trek through
Europe together with Jans and ambron
they engaged in conflict with the Boi
and other Celtic tribes the first
inklings of their migration were sounded
by Rome's treaty bound allies the toishi
who raised the alarm about the Kim's
impending arrival it was the year 113 BC
when Roman consul kaai papirus carabo
decided to defend their allies and
confront the kimry his chosen
Battleground was Norah located in the
heart of Austria however the Roman
consul's ambition exceeded his military
prowess and he suffered a resounding
defeat at the hands of the kimry the
kimry not content with their victory
over Caro continued their migration
leaving Rome in a state of
apprehension instead of turning to the
Italian Peninsula they turned West into
Galia
naanis together with the tutun they
continued their migration disrupting the
balance of power and engaging in clashes
with other tribes and Roman allies
amidst these threats Rome faced another
challenge across the Mediterranean Sea
emerging tensions in numidia exacerbated
by King jura's betrayal led to war from
107 BC One of Rome's most promising
commanders gas I replaced Rome's
commander in numidia to wage war against
the unruly King the simultaneous
management of these two Wars tested
Roman military prowess in 107 BC as the
war in numidia lingered on the Roman
senate organized another campaign
against the kimry a 40,000 strong Army
led by the consul Lucius Casio longinus
defeated a Germanic Celtic Alliance near
tosa however at Bala an enormous Army
consisting of kimry two tones and tigari
defeated the Roman army killing the
consul and the high ranking officers
news of the defeat enraged Rome but it
also endangered the city other GIC
tribes often subjugated by the Romans
saw a chance and Rose up in Rebellion
the following year Rome's new consuls
quintus cilius capio and gas atius sanus
began preparing their retribution capio
was assigned Gul as a province and
embarked on a mission to reassert Roman
authority over rebellious allies in the
course of his campaign he recaptured
toosa where he amassed a staggering
treasure believed by some to have
originated from the famed Temple of Deli
however the focus on the Treasure's
theft obscures much of the campaign's
details there is a dir of information
regarding the local tribes activities
during this time the kimry after their
earlier Victory against Rome seemed to
change their Cor
moving away from Southern Gaul and
refraining from advancing towards Italy
despite a prior inclination to settle in
those
territories frustration and Desperation
may have set in for the kimry as they
had not yet found a peaceful settlement
after 7 years of conflict while
understanding they could not settle in
Italy they likely believed they could
not settle in southern Gall or Spain
until Roman influence north of the Alps
was removed but in the Kim's absence
Rome dispatched reinforcements to the
region to prevent marauding tribes from
endangering their Capital they had two
armies in G one led by Pro Consul capio
and the other by the new Consul malus
who were assigned different provinces
along the ran River as per Roman
tradition despite being on the same side
Kio and malus were known for being
Fierce Rivals often unwilling to
cooperate or help each other out the
events leading up to arosio are not well
documented but it appears that in early
105 BC King boric and the kimri
accompanied by the tones and their King
tabot returned to Southern Gore they ran
into fresh Roman armies controlling and
pacifying the region these Romans aimed
to eradicate the tribal threat once and
for
all Roman strength numbered around
120,000 in total 880,000 of these were
troops divided into 10 to 12 Legions
Additionally the Romans marshaled 40,000
auxiliaries and camp followers the Roman
armies faced an overwhelming tribal
force that could have reached as many as
300,000 Warriors According to some
accounts this enormous Force included
the kimry tutonis torini and ambones
they were commanded by the kimry king
boric and tutan King tbod before the
Battle of arosio there was an initial
encounter between the Romans and the
kimri during which a Roman Force Under
the command of Aurelius scorus serving
as a legot under malus faced the kimry
heavily outnumbered scores' forces were
ambushed and defeated some of his troops
fled but most were captured or killed
scorus was captured and brought before
boric he refused to lead the kimry
across the Alps considering the language
barrier it remains unclear how the
Romans eventually learned this story but
it appears scorus demanded the kimry
turn back he dissuaded them from
crossing the Alps and invading Italy his
Defiance was not appreciated and King
boric had him executed meanwhile near
the rone river malas and capio set up
their respective camps near the river
banks both commanders were driven by
personal ambition and a desire to claim
individual Glory the closest settlement
was the town of arosio Consul malus
recognizing the looming threat sent a
letter to Kyo urging him to combine
their forces to confront the kimry
however Kyo refused to cooperate kyo's
refusal to cooperate with malas resulted
in the Roman forces operating as
separate armies rather than a unified
front before the battle the kimry had
sent emissaries to the Romans perhaps
driven by dread or a desire for land for
their tribe to settle on however any
cooperation or acceptance of the Kim's
terms would have been highly unlikely
kio's subsequent Brusque dismissal of
the envoys angered the kimry and Kings
boric and tbod committed to an attack as
the battle became inevitable it remains
unclear precisely how the failure to
cooperate between the Roman commanders
affected the battle itself Capo's Army
closer to the kimry bore the initial
brunt of the battle as the kimry
attacked Roman historians allude that
kaipio launched a Counterattack with
hopes that m IAS would offer support
Roman legionaries and kiman warriors
engaged in a brutal melee The Clash was
chaotic and Close Quarters with
disciplined Roman cohorts facing the
Relentless attacks of the kimry the
battlefield echoed with the sounds of
weapons clashing and warriors grappling
as both sides fought fiercely for
control in the intense hand-to-hand
combat however kio's attack ultimately
failed leading to his retreat
with kio's Camp exposed the kimry
plundered and ransacked his Camp some
legionaries attempted to defend the camp
but the kimry mercilessly slaughtered
camp followers and troops alike some
surviving Romans likely retreated into
malus's Army though unsure if the armies
collided and became intertwined this may
have only increased chaos among the
Roman ranks hungry for victory after
such an effortless Triumph the kimry
surged forward to assault maximus' camp
internal Discord had already pushed the
Roman contingent to the brink according
to Roman historians their camps were
close together and most troops witnessed
the utter annihilation of comrades this
led to even more crumbling of morale as
the kimry came closer and launched
attacks against the Roman Camp many
legionaries stood firm attempting to
defend but the overwhelming number of
Warriors quickly proved too much for
them under different circumstances a
retreat might have ensued but the poorly
positioned Camp left them cornered
against the river the river ran acting
as a natural barrier left the Romans
trapped and vulnerable although many
attempted a river Escape armor Laden
difficulties thwarted their efforts only
a few including servants and camp
followers successfully Slipped Away the
battle itself resulted in a catastrophic
loss for the Romans according to
rutilius Rufus the casualties were
staggering with at least 70,000 regular
troops and light armed soldiers
perishing in a single day casualty
figures in other ancient accounts vary
from 60,000 to 80,000 Roman and Allied
troops lost Livy references valerus
antias for example he asserts the Romans
lost an estimated 880,000 soldiers and
40,000 servants and camp followers this
defeat at arosio stood as one of Rome's
most significant and devastating
military setbacks paralleling the
magnitude of the Battle of canai in
terms of losses despite the lack of a
detailed account of the battle its
impact on Roman history remains profound
showcasing the severe consequences of
divided leadership and Military
mismanagement only 10 men are said to
have survived the devastating defeat in
the aftermath the kimry having gained
control of Roman caps and a substantial
amount of plunder engaged in a
destructive frenzy they systematically
destroyed captured clothing discarded
gold and silver into the river hacked
apart breastplates ruined horse
trappings drowned horses and hanged men
from
trees however the critical Factor
contributing to the Roman defeat lay not
only in the numerical disadvantage but
also in the lack of coordination between
the two Roman
commanders this fatal combination of
personal ambition and overconfidence in
Roman military invincibility proved
disastrous many details remain
relatively unknown due to the lack of
surviving narratives covering the
battle the aftermath of the devastating
battle brought widespread grief to Italy
in this Grim atmosphere the Romans
believed that an invasion by the Gauls
such as the kimry was imminent they
feared a repeat of the gala saac of Rome
which still loomed as a spectre in
Collective Roman
history in 387 BC at the river Alia a
Gaul Coalition defeated the Romans
before sacking the capital city however
into this troubled backdrop arrived news
of gas marius's success in capturing
juga and ending the jorine war Marius
was elected consul for 104 BC and
subsequently reelected four more times
ushering in the age of Marius and
positioning him as a central figure in
the upcoming kiman
Wars thank you very much for watching
this video please leave a like it really
helps out the channel if there is a
topic battle or person you would like to
know more about let me know your
thoughts in a comment I would also like
to thank all my patrons and channel
members for their generous support if
you enjoy House of history and you want
to support my work consider joining me
on patreon for just $1 per month you
will already gain Early Access to all my
videos without any inv video
advertisements don't forget to subscribe
see you next time
