east hastings is widely regarded as the
most dangerous street in north america
well besides mexico obviously
it is a hot spot for homelessness drug
use and crime it's awesome conditions
have become so unsafe on hastings in the
downtown east side it has suspended mail
delivery here is a look at some dramatic
footage from within the last hour
[Music]
located in the heart of downtown
vancouver hastings has a reputation for
being the worst street in canada the
corporation said the neighborhood was
now so dangerous employees would no
longer be delivering letters or parcels
to residents or businesses people avoid
it like the plague and it is one of
those things nobody likes to talk about
however due to the controversy it peaks
everybody's curiosity have you ever been
to hastings let's go drive down the
middle of the street these are regular
conversations you will hear amongst
people who visit some would even argue
it's a tourist attraction in a really
dark [ __ ] up way
i was recently staying in an apartment
in gastown vancouver
literally two minutes away from hastings
i used to do lots of wild interviews at
weird locations on this channel and i
thought wow hastings that fits right
into this category but instead of doing
interviews during the daytime like a
[ __ ] i decided to go at nighttime the
most sketch time possible saturday night
days after a value village was burned to
the ground we begin with breaking news
or a large fire has broken out at the
value village thrift store near east
hasting street was it arson
i'm not saying it was arson but it was
definitely arson vancouver fire and
rescue telling city news that most of
the building has already collapsed but i
didn't focus much on that i focused more
about the stories of the people who were
actually living on hastings
foreign
oh
walking into this place felt like a bad
drug trip street lights were blinking
there were weird noises sirens and
everybody was staring at me which i
don't blame them i'm a great looking guy
within 15 minutes of being there we had
already received multiple death threats
dudes on bikes would come out to us in
the background and tell us that we were
going to get jumped and that we can't
point our cameras a certain way you know
yadda yadda same [ __ ] i've heard a
million times we kept filming what are
they gonna do stop me in the middle of
the street i mean probably statistically
yeah that's what happens at hastings
[Music]
i found this one guy that went on one of
if not the most epic rants of all time
he pretty much took every conspiracy
i've ever heard and linked them together
in one coherent plot it was so insane i
had to break it into multiple sections
throughout the video so make sure you
watch till the end of this video for the
grand finale once he puts all the pieces
together it blew my mind
there was an ambulance cop car or fire
truck blaring sirens every five minutes
or so and according to him they only
come by when he is telling the truth to
silence his words
but anyways
[Music]
[Music]
two
[Music]
[Music]
so
[Music]
so
some of these guys i genuinely felt bad
for they seemed very nice and for lack
of better words normal
the drug use had definitely done some
damage on them but besides that they may
as well been sitting on a muskoka chair
at the cottage enjoying a nice crispy
brew except their cottage was on
hastings
[ __ ]
one of the misconceptions people have
about homeless is one they are
disgusting leopards but two that they
are all intense and serious i disagree i
think they are more like us than the
normies online think because the normies
online don't actually go and talk to
them i do just because they are homeless
doesn't mean they don't have a sense of
humor
[Music]
so
throughout that entire ordeal this guy
didn't blink once holy [ __ ] he basically
unlocks
so after about an hour filming we were
struggling to get any interviews people
were abrasive and aggressive and we were
getting eyed up by many sketchy looking
dudes who walked around us with their
hands in their pockets seeing how we
reacted to being followed and watched
our camera gear looked like a nice tasty
pork chop
or rather something that could be traded
for drugs so let's talk about drugs
hastings is a central hub for drug use
it is the most concentrated area of high
people i've ever seen in my life and
i've been to a lot of raves when i mean
high i mean it looked like a walking
dead people literally hunched over in
comas like they were visiting god now
this is something that terrifies most
people which is why everybody avoids the
area like their step parents and i don't
blame them one of the creepier things is
that the drugs are so affordable that's
what sustains this activity fentanyl
which is way more cheaper way more
accessible and has significantly higher
profit margins and it's coming straight
from china through the ports so it's
[ __ ] everywhere on top of that
vancouver recently decriminalized drugs
under 2.5 that's right baby party time
methamphetamines coke molly all the good
stuff you will no longer be arrested or
charged so on one hand people think wow
that's great people no longer have to go
to jail for possessing small amounts but
then somebody explained it to me
differently because they decriminalized
up to 2.5 grams of these drugs drug
dealers can easily dominate the street
one of them drives around and drops off
2.5 g's to multiple smurfs at once who
then easily spread out and deal to
everybody throughout the street and hey
as long as they only have 2.5 for
personal use it's like the drug dealer
cheat code so it's only been a few weeks
since this happened so we'll have to see
how it plays out in theory it's a good
idea but like i said it's way easier to
profit and distribute drugs on hastings
and in vancouver from now on so it's
definitely helping some of the
entrepreneurs stimulate the hastings
economy
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
there were definitely some characters
there for sure but like i said a lot of
people there they had a sense of humor
they want to be talked to as a normal
person
if anybody deserves a book deal it's him
shout out to this legend now like i
mentioned earlier we constantly had
people following us around warning us of
violence if we did the wrong thing or
film someone or whatever some people
said it respectfully others were being
very passive-aggressive they almost had
this sense of entitlement like they
owned the street and you were not
allowed to look at them or even film
them or their tents in the background
walk in their area et cetera et cetera
and on one hand i was very saddened by
the state of some people on these
streets but here's another angle just
because you set up a tent and took a
[ __ ] next to it does not mean you own
the sidewalk
[Music]
eventually we made our way off the
street and to be honest it was because
it was just too [ __ ] depressing we
walked in and the energy changed it was
like a force field of darkness around
the edges we were walking into a storm
my buddy turned to me and he was like
dude
why am i so [ __ ] depressed we need to
get out of here and go see somebody with
a smile on their face so after an hour
or two of some of the most intense
interviews we've ever done we headed out
of the matrix and back in the
civilization a staggering 50 meters away
that's what's so weird about it it is
right next to everybody and everything
else so today is thursday and last night
i finished recording and then out of
nowhere i was notified that there was
another fire at hastings this is a live
view of the area surrounding maine and
east hastings where a fire has broken
out literally a church
set on fire and burned yesterday we
walked over i even shot some video of it
myself i don't even know what to say at
this point guys turns out there's been
an arson burning a bunch of [ __ ] down in
hastings and now this fire it's crazy
they are trying to burn this place to
the ground it is the most deadly street
in north america it was burning
yesterday that's crazy guys sounds like
i'm gonna have to go back to hastings at
some point and do a round two of this
video what do you guys think is going on
here why is everything burning down drop
a comment below most of the building has
already collapsed
hope that you enjoyed the video i
haven't done interviews or documentaries
in ages but that is actually the og
content of this channel i recently got
the itch to start doing it again and i'm
going to be filming these the rest of
the summer i'll be hitting calgary
stampede shambhala psychedelic festival
veld and much more making mini movies
like this the reason i stopped filming
these is because they got demonetized
age restricted and even when they do
escape the wrath of youtube the cpm is
depressingly low when you take into
consideration traveling editing etc i
actually lose money when i make videos
like this so perhaps i will start a
patreon or something like that i'm not
sure yet i want to hear from you in the
comments if you enjoyed this let me know
i know a lot of you only watch for the
interviews and felt betrayed when i
switched to pranks a couple years ago so
if you're still here leave me a comment
follow me on instagram send me a message
and tell me what you thought of this
video and if you would sign up for a
patreon to watch content like this let
me know in the comments and i will
consider it
[Music]
[Music]
you
