[Music]
Mr Eaton has become one of the leaders
of the anti racism protests in Britain I
[Music]
don't want us to just be marching on the
roads and screaming black lives matter
we need to be productive in the things
like we're saying because we now have a
voice for weeks regular black lives
matter protests have been taking place
in London and all over the country
mr an Eaton joined the protests a few
weeks ago she hopes that this grassroots
movement will culminate in concrete
political reforms
[Music]
those slogans are important
mr an Eaton once more she is an actor by
profession but the black lives matter
protest in the US moved her and now
she's become one of the leading figures
of Britain's anti racism movement the
biggest thing for me as an organizer is
to ensure that everyone understands and
expresses the same narrative that we are
all unified in the same narrative I
don't actually know my speech I tend to
speak from the heart I have a rough idea
and then I tend to just like most of the
protest this demo in London's Hyde Park
was organized pretty much at the last
minute mr an Eaton only met her cool
speakers recently the Phoenix is Jada
and then after Jada is Ellen I start
within about half an hour's wait for
more numbers and we'll weigh in first no
[ __ ] crowd of people that's always
becoming it's important that the demos
draw big numbers to make sure that the
message gets across and the movement
becomes a catalyst for change
[Music]
that's is why we are here we have and
change means fundamental change in
schools in the workplace and in the
judicial system not everyone here thinks
that such change is necessary
David Curtin whose father is Jamaican
sits as a Briggs at Alliance member on
the London Assembly he's come as an
observer I don't agree with the
narrative that Britain is a systemically
racist country this is one of the best
countries in the world to be a black
person to be an ethnic minority a person
of color there's equal opportunities for
everyone there's equality under the law
is freedom and liberty so I think that
this is a narrative that's being talked
up and is actually creating division
people in the organisation of black
lives matter are pushing for a cultural
change in a cultural shift but you know
this country has a large silent majority
which is conservative and loves our
history and our heritage in our culture
and doesn't want it to change there is a
huge amount of resistance to this
movement that you're seeing it's very
very loud but it doesn't have the
support of the majority of the people
but Mr Eaton and other anti racism
campaigners point out that racism is
subtle and structural in Britain they
say that it starts at school where
pupils are taught about the British
Empire in glorified terms when people of
color crop up the invariably slaves they
say that statues of colonialists and
slave traders have to be contextualized
and history has to be taught in a
different way education is a big one I
mean we're trying to
let the UK learn about its own history
and actually you know have some black
history in the curriculum so systemic
racism is so underlying in the roots
this country is designed to benefit
middle-class straight white male
everyone knows it's fighting ten times
harder to fight that they should fight
and it's unfair that because of my skin
color or anyone else's skin color
sexuality we are looked down upon where
stereotypes a lot as being poor which
they're attacking Najma stereotypes of
being ghetto and we're here to break
that stereotype we can articulate
ourselves the same way all these other
people can comment articulate themselves
we're here to talk what we have to say
and we're going to do it without anyone
else before us Mr Eaton who grew up in
the culturally mixed area of Peckham in
South London says that she has often
experienced racism at times overtly
sometimes covertly get some think that
for myself person that I've gotten used
to whether it is someone going out of
their way to stand nowhere near you ever
it's the odd look when you walk into a
shop yeah there's a lot of micro
behaviors that go on
[Music]
she's also gotten used to hearing
insults all her life
I've been called the n-word before I've
been more covert you're attractive for a
black woman you get a mixture of those
types of things you know and I that one
really burns us as young black women and
that that statement has been said many
years growing up so now she's putting
all her energies into ensuring that she
and nobody else ever has to hear racist
slurs again finding a quiet woman for
herself isn't easy it's very difficult
and especially as I am very new to all
of this I was not someone that was
protesting or organizing protests before
and the photographs of me so for me just
being an average girl from Peckham who
has experienced racism who was
passionate about institutionalized
racism and is confident about vocalizing
it for me it's been very difficult to
now stand by myself in this reformist
agenda and have to try to unite others
that disagree with my gender
what's also new is that she's much more
in the spotlight but thanks to her media
presence if you can get her ideas out
there as opposed to some activist
mr an Eaton is not calling for radical
reforms such as abolishing the police
she wants reforms that the majority of
Britons can get behind and she wants to
educate I'm very much focused on putting
a spotlight on institutionalized racism
that is my main focus she says that only
when this is accepted as a fact will the
racist slurs finally come to an end for
me it's really important that society
acknowledges the fact that we have a
problem with institutionalized racism
and it's only then can we rectify this
problem only then can we find the
long-lasting solutions that we're all so
desperate for
Oh
[Music]
she hopes that the anti-racism movement
will create more respect for people of
color in Britain and amorn thinks this
is the right moment
she says it's imperative not to miss
this chance we can no longer leave with
anger we must be strategic we must be
intelligent we must use our wisdom and
we must fight for the things that's not
actually going to be implemented in law
thank you there's a lot of talk
consistently which is fine right after a
month action Iman is organizing a new
protest with the musician Phoenix they
want to drop a list of political demands
and consider themselves representatives
of the anti racism movement in Britain I
think we both have a very kind of clear
vision for what we think is to happen
for this protest I think we both spoke
and felt frustrated that there wasn't
enough demands being made that our voice
wasn't being heard loudly enough at the
end of the day none of the civil rights
movements we ever had would have gotten
anywhere
leaders and without people kind of
stepping up to the plate and speaking
for the rest of us one concrete demand
that they had is quotas to ensure that
people of color and other minorities in
Brazil can access top positions in
society every five years they have a
quota that they have to meet to ensure
one that we can safely say there's no
longer institutionalized racism within
that industry and two it also gives
confidence to those of the younger
generations who branch into those
industries because they are being
represented and there are leaders that
are black david kurtal is totally
against such quotas which he thinks are
superfluous he is more in favor of law
and order for resolving society's
problems he is also proud of Britain's
history and does not think that the
Statue of Winston Churchill should be
banished to the museum
yeah well he wasn't a perfect man of
course it was a long time ago people had
a different frame of reference for there
he was wrong on some little things but
on the big thing that really mattered he
got that right and he helped this
country defeat Nazism not just for here
but for all of Europe he got that right
and he should be maintained in Pride a
place here mr eaton agrees that there is
no point in simply toppling or defacing
statues as has happened in the recent
weeks she wants to raise awareness in a
more systematic way she seems to have
struck the right tool with her fellow
protesters I think she's powerful I
think she's strong and I think she's
doing an amazing job and has been for
the past month I think she's brave I
think she's a great example that we
couldn't be whatever one would be or we
could embrace our names and we could
embrace our culture and everything else
that we bring to the table she's an
amazing incredible inspirational woman
she has done so much organised this
other protests as well
she's such she's she was anyone she's
such a community spirit in person and
honestly like she deserves an award
really Stickley for what she's doing
today and she's brought everyone
together and the movement seems to have
had an effect politically Prime Minister
Boris Johnson has announced a government
Commission to look into racial
inequalities but him are an Eaton thinks
it's going to be a long haul it's a big
big task a big a big picture that we're
trying to achieve but hope
with this momentum there's no reason why
we can't achieve that she doesn't intend
to stop until these ambitious goals have
been achieved
[Applause]
