[Music]
I fixed your bike is a simplest form of
a bike it is the bike with nothing
unnecessary so to speak it doesn't have
cables it doesn't rely on brakes or
changing gears it's one gear it's fixed
and you control the outcome my name is
Kyle Fox Southern California parade
inspector Kelly Rancho Cucamonga I'm
reading fixed gears for about eight
years seven eight
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
a really unique place I've been to go
riding is up in San Francisco I recently
visited up there to experience what the
city was on a bike and the uniqueness of
it comes with the traffic the people the
constantly having your eyes open if the
hills are your best friends and your
word friend at the same time I feel like
San Francisco challenged my like
physical obviously because of the hills
but like my like cognitive ability to
decide where I want to go because with
the fixed gear your options of ways out
are pretty limited
I mean you granted you if you ride a
brake like you have that that last-ditch
effort to get out of the situation but
in San Francisco for me it was more
challenging and I like that but I had to
think while I was riding we're here you
could ride just four miles and not have
to pay attention and just have your
headphones in and just just go
[Music]
inspiration for writing
for me stems from day to day what's
going on in my head and things are
happening around me I feel like want to
get out enjoy the day alright I feel
like you had too much on my mind alright
but feel like I'm having a great day
might as well add to it I write a quote
that I really like is remember why you
started with neck goes with anything
remember white sort of riding remember
why he started working remember why he
started doing anything it's really
simple yet really deep at the same time
because you gotta remember why he
started people lose track of that I feel
this is a quote by Henry Thompson it's a
faster and faster until the thrill of
speed overcomes the fear of death you're
literally going so fast that you have to
enjoy that moment or else you're just
gonna be terrified if you don't enjoy
going really fast like down a hill
you're gonna be sitting there scared as
 but if you let that thrill overcome
you that I'm here it just kind of goes
away and when that fear goes away that's
that's the old man
and that's partially why I write it
right excuse
[Music]
