[Music]
on the 11th of July 1929 crowds gathered
in Gillingham Park in Gillingham England
they were there to witness a
demonstration of modern firefighting and
fire rescue techniques laid on by the
town's fire brigade it was to be a
fitting climax for the town's summer
fate
or so they thought nobody watching from
the crowd imagined that the
demonstration they would see that night
would end up being far more real and far
more deadly than they
anticipated Gillingham is an English
town situated to the east of London in a
county called
Kent like many towns and cities in this
County Gillingham has a long and Rich
history which stretches back almost a
thousand years it is named after an
ancient warlord named gillus which means
one who shouts in Old English he was
known for leading his men into battle
with a great deal of screaming and
swearing Gillingham is situated on the
banks of the river Medway close to where
it flows out into the Tempest and the
Sea throughout its long history this has
made it of great importance as a
maritime settlement for many hundreds of
years Gillingham shared an important
dockyard with its neighboring town of
chattam by the 1900s this had become a
naval base where submarines and other
military vessels were built and launched
during World War
I the town in 1929 was thriving it had
been growing steadily for many years
merging with and absorbing neighboring
towns and
Buras it had a lively social calendar
one highlight of which was the summer
fate held each year in Gillingham
Park the Fate proceeds of which would
support a local hospital would last for
two days with a range of entertainment
including music performances food and
drink on the final day a climactic
performance would take place courtesy of
the local fire brigade this annual
tradition had grown up over several
years during the 1920s and generally
followed a similar pattern each year two
prominent local firefighters would dress
up as a pantomim bride and groom then
spend the day mingling with the crowd
and collecting
donations
at the end of the day the crowd would
gather for a mock wedding reception
which would take place in a
purpose-built structure made from wooden
scaffolding and canvas this rudimentary
house was supposed to be the marital
home of the newly wedded firefighters
but of course it had another purpose it
would also allow their colleagues to
demonstrate their firefighting and
rescue
skills with the happy couple inside
smoke bombs would be set off and torches
would be lit to create a flickering
light lights behind the canvas and give
the impression that the building was on
fire the couple would cry out for help
and their colleagues would come running
to carry out a spectacular pantomim
rescue
operation once they were safely removed
the whole structure would be set on fire
for real and the crowd would watch as
the mock house turned into a bonfire
which would of course be kept safely
under control by those same local
firefighters over the years as this
tradition became more and more
embellished local youth organizations
like the naval Cadets and sea Scouts had
gotten involved and would allow some
young members to stand in as wedding
guests they would join the fake bride
and groom in the house and would each be
rescued in turn during the
demonstration by the evening of the 11th
of July 1929 the last day of the 1929
fate everything was in place the house
that year was a three-story 12 M or 40
foot tall wooden scaffold covered with
canvas and stocked with barrels of
paraffin and wood chips on the ground
floor to ensure that it would burned
quickly and well at around 10: p.m. six
men mostly firefighters in fancy dress
and nine boys mostly Naval Cadets and
sea Scouts took their places inside the
children were between 10 and 14 years
old at around 10:15 p.m. Flames shot up
from the bottom of the building quickly
engulfing it the men and boys within
waved theatrically and cried out for
help entreating the audience to summon
the fire brigade many people watching
laughed and clapped enjoying what they
believed was an unusually Grand and
realistic firefighting
demonstration in fact however the Flames
that now engulfed the fake house were
very very
real different people in the crowd
realized that something was wrong at
different times the members MERS of the
fire brigade outside the house poised
for a mock rescue were among the first
to realize that the flames and the cries
for help were real They seized hoses and
ladders and rushed to try and deliver
people from the now blazing wooden
structure others in the crowd only
understood the reality of the situation
when they saw some of those inside the
scaffold jump from the upper
floors exf firefighter Royal Mitchell
who had been dressed as a clown for the
event leapt from the house with his
clothing on fire landed in a heap found
his feet and ran to a nearby trough of
water plunging bodily into it to
extinguish the Flames that burned him he
did all of this with his wife and
daughter watching in horror from the
crowd he was taken to hospital where he
survived for 30 hours before passing
away the next day with his wife at his
side he died in the same hospital that
the Fate had been intended to raise
money
for sea Scout Leonard win just 13 years
old had little time to react when the
building caught fire he ran to the edge
of the roof and jumped but despite this
quick reaction was unable to escape
severe
burns he was found by his own father who
had raced to Gillingham Park in his car
as soon as he heard what had happened
despite being transported to hospital
Leonard would not
survive in his final hours he complained
little despite his injuries and asked
repeatedly about the fate of his fellow
sea
Scouts fireman John Tabet ran into the
burning structure to try and rescue some
of the children but was unsuccessful and
perished in the fire fireman Francis
Caine was inside the house when it
caught fire and stayed long enough to
pick up two children one under each arm
before jumping to safety neither fireman
cocaine nor the the two boys he carried
when he jumped
survived because the fire brigade was on
the scene already with firefighting
equipment prepared the Flames were
extinguished in just 5 minutes but the
damage was already done 13 people had
passed away in those 5 minutes and two
more would die of their injuries in the
days which
followed the dead were 13-year-old Scout
Reginald Barrett 12-year-old Cadet David
brunning
12-year-old Cadet Eric
Cheeseman 10-year-old Cadet Leonard
SS 11-year-old Scout Iva
cinden 13-year-old Scout William
Spinx 14-year-old Robert
Usher 13-year-old Scout Leonard win
13-year-old Leslie Neil 52-year-old
fireman Francis cocaine 37-year-old
fireman Royal
Mitchell 56-year-old fireman Albert
Nichols 37-year-old officer John
nutton 40-year-old fireman Arthur Tabet
and 30-year-old Frederick
warl an inquest was held to determine
what had gone wrong and to devise ways
to prevent a similar disaster in the
future despite extensive investigation
though it could not be determined why
the fire had started early it was
concluded that the whole basis of the
demonstration had been hazardous and
that lives should not have been put at
risk for this purpose in the first
place at the time demonstrations of a
similar nature were popular around the
country no such demonstration was ever
held in Gillingham again and many other
similar demonstrations around the
country were also cancelled as news of
the disaster
spread the victims of the fire were
buried in a mass ceremony on the 17th of
July before the the burial they were
carried through the streets of
Gillingham in a solemn procession those
who had some connection to the Navy were
carried on gun carriages While others
were carried by fire engines adorned
with the helmets of Fallen
firefighters thousands of people
attended filling the streets of
Gillingham 400 firefighters from around
the country 500 Sea Scouts and 200
Sailors took part in the
procession the disaster had a
significant impact on the small
community of Gillingham the loss of so
many young lives all at once was one of
the greatest losses felt by the
community during the inter War period
the loss would be commemorated forever
in 2011 when a relative of someone lost
in the fire raised funds for the
restoration of the graves and the
installation of a
memorial the fireman's wedding at the
1929 Gillingham fate had been intended
as a fun and spectacular demonstration
of the local fire brigades
abilities ultimately it cost 15 people
their lives and forever changed the
trajectory of dozens of families living
in
Gillingham though its impact was
terrible it remains a part of the town's
long history ensuring that those who
died will not be
[Music]
forgotten
[Music]
a
