in the early hours of august 19 1919 a
handful of small british torpedo boats
snuck into kronstadt the most heavily
defended naval base in the world they
launched a daring attack on the russian
baltic fleet inside its own harbor
determined to bolshevik sea
power and help to secure the
independence of the baltic states
though the armistice of november 1918
brought the first world war to an end in
the territories of the former russian
empire fighting still raged a brutal
civil war had broken out between the
bolsheviks and their
counter-revolutionary opponents known as
the white russians
the victorious allies were not as it
turned out big fans of bolshevism and
from 1918 they intervened to support
their opponents
after the end of hostilities with
germany britain expanded its
intervention to the baltic sea
a naval task force was sent to help
strengthen the populations of that part
of the world against bolshevism and to
assist britain's interests in the baltic
principally this meant supporting the
newly independent nations of estonia and
latvia which were threatened by a red
army that was every bit as imperialist
as the tsarist one that had gone before
the british squadron under rear admiral
walter cowan from january 1919 did what
it could to help though with no plans
for british land troops to be dispatched
this help was mostly limited to the
supply of arms and occasional naval
gunfire support
cowen's ships were the only major naval
force initially but as winter turned to
spring the sea ice in the gulf of
finland began to melt threatening to
unleash a serious threat in the shape of
the russian baltic fleet
under the control of the bolsheviks and
operating from the heavily defended
fortress of kronstadt were three
battleships two cruisers eight
destroyers and five submarines
with the battleships wielding 12-inch
guns they had a clear superiority over
cowan's force of light cruisers and
destroyers and alarm bells began to ring
when bolshevik ships skirmished with
their british counterparts on may 17th
luckily for rear admiral cowan help was
on the way in the shape of six men and a
couple of speed boats
at the start of 1919 augustus wellington
shelton agar was a 29 year old royal
navy lieutenant with nothing to do
he had served during the war supporting
supplies to russia and later in motor
torpedo boats these two experiences made
him an ideal candidate for a rather more
low publicity deployment of the baltic
in february agar was recruited by
britain's secret intelligence service to
lead a detachment of two coastal motor
boats at the small finnish town of
teriyaki these small craft could move
quickly and stealthy through russian
minefields making them ideal for running
spies to and from petrograd undetected
this task alone was not enough for agar
though who saw an opportunity to take a
rather more active role in the conflict
his boats were capable of carrying a
single torpedo on their stern and
lieutenant agar saw that it might be
possible to ambush an unsuspecting
bolshevik ship inside their protective
minefields where larger british ships
and submarines could not venture
such an attack was not actually within
the remit of agar's orders but he didn't
let that deter him persuading rear
admiral cowan to provide him with two
torpedoes shortly after arriving
in the middle of june agar got a chance
to test out his idea when the russian
fortress at krasnaya gorka rebelled
against the bolsheviks and was soon
under bombardment by heavy units of the
red fleet
on the night of june 17th agar took cmb7
over to the russian ships crept in a few
hundred yards of the cruiser oleg and
began an attack
because of the way the torpedo was
mounted on the boat this was a fraught
business agar had to accelerate the top
speed fire the torpedo off the back of
the boat and then turn hard to get out
of its way
managing to accomplish this the torpedo
slammed into the olex hull underneath
the fordmost funnel caught in the
cruiser to sink steadily into the gulf
of finland as agar and his crew crapped
away into the night
when news emerged of gas raid rear
admiral cowan was delighted at the
initiative even though it had taken
place without his orders
cowan was so impressed in fact he
decided to see if it could be replicated
on a larger scale he secured more
coastal motorboats from the admiralty
and positioned them at bjorko which was
being used as a forward base for
britain's naval forces in the area
these were larger craft and agars
carrying two torpedoes each with the
fertilla led by commander claude dobson
calvin was also reinforced at about the
same time by the aircraft carrier hms
vindictive which provided an air wing to
the british forces in the baltic for the
first time
before these aircraft had a chance to be
put to use though the ship was dealing
with a tragedy
on the morning of july 22nd while the
ship was at hands to bathing stations
leading aircraftman charles henry
england got into trouble and drowned
while swimming
he was buried the following day in the
town of koivisto and he also happened to
be my great's great uncle which brings
me neatly onto today's sponsor my
heritage is the number one family
history service in europe with over 18
billion historical records available and
an easy to use tool for building your
family tree
just enter simple biographical
information and myheritage's algorithms
will cross-reference the family trees of
other users with its smart matches
feature highlighting any family members
that appear somewhere else for you to
explore further in my own tree charles
henry england was born on 2nd december
1899 in kent england he was my great
great uncle on my mother's side the only
son of charles england entering his
basic details into my family tree allows
me to quickly find lots of information
about him for example i was able through
my heritage to find charles's service
record from his time in the armed forces
it shows that he joined up in february
1918 aged barely 18 and reveals other
bits of interesting information such as
his profession before the war a
carpenter and joiner as well as
documents and family trees my heritage
also has a really impressive ability to
colorize old photos bringing them to
life here it brings out the blue in
charles's raf uniform in a photo taken
in march 1919 just three months before
his untimely death aged 19 in the baltic
if you want to use my heritage to find
out about your own ancestors you can
sign up for a 14-day free trial to my
myheritage at the link in the
description below and enjoy all the
amazing features it has to offer if you
decide to continue your subscription
after this point you'll get a 50
discount thanks again to my heritage for
sponsoring this video with aircraft and
a flotilla of speed boats at his
disposal walter cowan now hatched an
incredibly bold plan
drawing inspiration from roger keys his
raid on z ruger the previous year which
left hadn't agar had taken part in he
outlined operation rk
the plan was for a mass torpedo boat
attack inside kronstadt harbour aiming
to destroy or damage as much of the red
fleet as possible
this was no small feat kronstadt was
protected by more than 20 individual
forts as well as extensive shore
batteries to aid the boats cowan ordered
a simultaneous bombing raid aiming to
distract the bolshevik gunners as much
as possible and cover the high-speed
approach of the coastal motorboats
the attack was scheduled for the middle
of august and in rehearsals the boat
crews soon found out what a tough task
they had
the harbour entrance was only 50 meters
wide and the harbour itself barely a
kilometer across
the boats would need to maneuver inside
this tight space at incredibly high
speed both to avoid the copious fire
from bolshevik shore batteries and
because the torpedoes wouldn't work if
fired from less than 30 knots
and they'd be doing all of this in the
dark
because of the lack of room it was
decided to attack in two waves of three
with agar on overwatch outside and one
boat ordered to attack the destroyer
gavril which was guarding the entrance
to the main harbour
at 9 30 pm on august 18th the now
lieutenant commander augustus agar led
the eight motorboats east towards
kronstadt
at some point after crossing the russian
minefield the group became split up in
the dark with commander dobson's boat
taking a more southerly course towards
the line of fort that guarded the
entrance to petrograd
soon agar only had two boats for company
left helen lawrence napier's cnb 24 and
sub-left-handed francis howard's cmb 86
howard's boat was in all sorts of engine
trouble though and shortly after passing
through the fort broke down entirely
unable to keep up with its compatriots
meanwhile the route taken by dobson
actually turned out to be quicker and he
arrived ahead of schedule
this was problematic because not only
had the diversionary air assault not
started yet
lieutenant napier's boat was the one
detailed to sink the russian destroyer
before the others entered the harbour
and he was not there yet
luckily for dobson and the two other
boats in the first wave the crew won
gavril were completely unaware of their
presence and the british ships began
their attack
first in was cnb 31 under lieutenant
william bremner he sped into the harbour
just as the first british planes arrived
overhead sending bolshevik sailors to
their guns
lieutenant bremner steadied his boat and
sped towards the submarine depot ship
pamyat azova
whilst this was happening outside the
harbour agar and napier arrived and the
latter began an attack run on gavril
whilst under the fire of at least nine
shore batteries and the destroyer itself
the torpedo was launched but it missed
and cmb-24 was blown apart by shellfire
now exposed to intense fire from the
very much intact russian destroyer
commander dobson in cmb-31 dashed into
the harbour
the gun and shell fire was now just as
bad inside with searchlights sweeping
the area there was a large explosion as
bremner's torpedo found its mark and
sank the pamiatas over
dobson's boat was in fact traveling so
fast when it entered the harbour it very
nearly ran into the sinking depot ship
in the nick of time the helmsman russell
mcbean cut one engine and shoved the
rudder hard over lining it up on the
pre-dreadnought battleship andrei
perbozzani then racing across the
harbour towards it
dobson waited for the engine to reach
1000 rpm and then fired both of his
torpedoes they surged forwards and
smashed into the pre-dreadnought
battleship blowing massive holes in its
side
lieutenant dale reed's boat was the next
to make an attack under intense fire
dale reed was hit and mortally wounded
so left helen gordon steele took over
the helm steering the boat to fire a
further torpedo with andre pervezani and
then a few moments later one at the
dreadnought battleship petropavlovsk
two large explosions were observed
outside the harbour the second wave was
now preparing to enter the boat under
left helen commander frank braid and
left hand edward bodley approached the
entrance
bodily was forced to turn away when a
shell broke the torpedo releasing
mechanism but braid pushed on at high
speed
as soon as he entered the harbour
searchlights picked up the boat blinding
the crew with a bright light that meant
they couldn't see left-handed bremner's
boat emerging from the dark directly
into their path
brandon's boat which was on its way out
after waiting to see dobson and dale
reed clear was almost cut in half by
braids and the two vessels were stuck
together stationary in the middle of
lethal fire from all directions
a few raf planes remained overhead and
they dive to strafe the bolshevik gun
and search light emplacements giving it
enough cover for the boat crew to
disentangle themselves and transfer the
crew of bremner's shattered boat to
braids rather more intact vessel
lieutenant braid now took his damaged
bow out of the harbour but was still
determined to use his torpedo before
heading home
he lined the boat up on gavril racing
towards it under a hail of fire from the
destroyer and the shore batteries who
now had virtually nothing else to shoot
at
before he could complete the attack
though braid was shot dead
bremner immediately took over command
firing two torpedoes that went on to
pass agonisingly underneath the
bolshevik destroyer cmb 62 was then hit
twice by shellfire disabling the boat
and leaving it stranded
bremner and his crew refused to
surrender and its two machine guns
continued firing even as their captain
was wounded 11 times and the boat
disintegrated beneath them
by the morning of august 19th both sides
were counting their losses the british
motorboats arrived back at bjorko having
lost three of their number
eighteen men were missing presumed dead
though it would turn out that nine of
these had in fact been captured
including incredibly lieutenant bremner
lieutenant steele and commander dobson
were awarded the victoria cross for
their role in the raid britain's highest
award for gallantry and augustus agar
received the same decoration for his
solo raid on the cruiser oleg in june
on the bolshevik side the raid had done
serious damage to its baltic fleet the
battleship andre pervezani and submarine
depot ship pamya tazova have been put
out of action and the british claimed
the petropavlovsk was similarly damaged
though this is disputed by soviet
sources tracking down exact numbers for
russian casualties has proved elusive
though considering the shallow
surroundings they are likely to have
been relatively limited
regardless of the exact amount of damage
done the effect of the raids on
chronostrat was that the red fleet
ceased to be a serious problem for the
british operation in the baltic and when
combined with fuel shortages meant that
the bolsheviks were unable to project
serious naval power beyond its own
minefields securing estonia and latvia's
seaward flank and aiding their
successful fight for independence thanks
for watching this video if you want to
dive deeper into the raid on kronstadt
check out this infographic poster we
made covering the battle it has even
more detail than this video and is
available right now on teespring with 20
off if you use the code baltic
thanks as well to the estorograph
patrons for their ongoing support and
i'll see you in the next video
