[Music]
I got a safe roof over our head for now
until we find an apartment and just you
know making sure I took every necessary
step to make sure that you know this one
gets like the life that I never had New
York the city of Big Dreams for many is
also home to a growing number of
unhoused people but it's real easy to be
homeless these days over 650,000 people
are homeless in the US more than ever
before the situation is especially bad
in New
[Music]
York and so this is where I
live John lives with his family in a
homeless shelter in New York he shares
this room in Brooklyn with his
girlfriend Zoe and their daughter
Isabella I'll be the
entryway this is basically my
kitchen that's the fridge that they
provide in the unit and they also
provide a little
table and then they give you a
dresser and a
bed as you can
see it's been a year since they moved in
here they're working hard to be able to
move into their own place as soon as
[Music]
possible right now we're trying to get
help getting an apartment but it's
taking a little while now because the
public assistance is backed up with a
bunch of cases so right now we're just
waiting to get help that we need John
was kicked out of his family home when
he was 21 he stayed with friends for a
while while before landing in a homeless
shelter he then got a flat but ended up
in a shelter again after he couldn't
afford the rent we had to do like a few
hurdles um it took us like three tries
to get to this shelter so they have
multiple shelters in New York but the
shelters we were sent to before they
they were kind of like not suitable like
for us living in them because at the
time she was pregnant and the conditions
were really like bad I would say it was
um run down areas there was a lack of
security um the space that they provided
was really really small like I say like
shoulder to shoulder like units I'd say
it's like about like 3x3 um this one
that we got to it it was it was like
more convenient for us because it had a
little bit more space homelessness in
New York is at its highest level in
almost 100 years over 990,000 unhoused
New Yorkers are currently sleeping in
the city's homeless shelters about a
third of them are children over the past
10 years the number of homeless adult
New Yorkers has doubled pushing up
demand for shelter places also among
young families my sisters all went
through the shelter system cuz they all
have kids and you know they couldn't
like stay where they were living
couldn't they couldn't live like with my
mom cuz no space there so they had to go
through the shelter too and that's kind
of what made me want to say hey if they
could do it I could do it too John Works
night at a Clinic where he is often
confronted with homelessness more people
are going into the hospital just cuz
they want a bed they want something to
eat and you know the the hospital can't
deny them but it's unfortunate cuz
sometimes I have to like kick them out
cuz that's like a part of my job even
though I don't want to cuz I understand
what it is to be homeless since I
experienced that myself in his teens
John broke the law he was arrested and
sent to prison Zoe whom he met in high
school never gave up on him
I I never thought I was a good person
you know I thought I was just a average
person but you know she she really gets
in my head and she lets me know like hey
you're a strong guy you do everything
you can to do right and it's true she
she made me like she she made me find a
fire in myself that I didn't know I had
until you already had that fire no I I
didn't I didn't have I didn't realize
that I had that fire until she like
helped me acknowledge it and and then
from there it's just been it just keeps
burning stronger and stronger and then
with this one it's like she's asleep now
it's just like a a furnace or something
it's just going to keep burning like you
know no matter what happens to me if I
have health conditions or mental
conditions you know I'm always going to
try to be the rock for them try to be a
a sense of stability that they can
always rely on cuz you know this is this
is my family now so you know I want to
do the best thing to be their protector
and and their provider F and I'm going
to do everything in my power to do
that um I always believed in him um
people used to tell me all the time you
know he's bad for you don't follow him
he's so many things but I should close
my ears to it cuz I believed in him to
this day I believe in him and Rodriguez
also believes in John the lawyer runs a
nonprofit called avenues for justice
which works to keep young people out of
prison and provides young offenders an
alternative to
incarceration anel is very troubled by
the changes he's
seen it's real easy to be homeless these
days um because of the economic issue I
mean look this neighborhood there was a
time even for me where the landlord
didn't give me heat I look around the
corner and get a bigger apartment for
less money that was the situation I mean
there wasn't this hustle and this issue
of Statistics in terms of you know how
much apartments are costing we weren't
looking at a lot of that but today the
issue is out of control where there is
no housing um for even people who who
want them and need them uh the
apartments that I used to rent were $200
the same apartment today is
$4,000 same apartment the covid-19
pandemic made things worse according to
a survey by cuni around 44% of New
Yorkers had problems paying their rent
at the outset of the pandemic leading to
numerous evictions job termination
domestic violence mental illness and
addiction are other reasons why people
end up on the streets Andel has been
helping young people facing such
challenges for 50 years I always say
that I'm a court advocacy program um I I
don't really deal in homelessness
however this work takes me in into
everywhere including the issue of
homelessness because I'm representing a
lot of young people um who in 2023 or
since the pandemic even before that L
these kids are on their own problems at
home
um uh problems that they create for
themselves sometimes that create
situations where they can't go home the
center aims to offer young people a safe
space
they can do their homework here have
lunch or learn how to improve their CV
for example they also have access to
counselors who can serve as positive
role models one of them is Elsie who
first came to the nonprofit many years
ago to join its
program at the age of 13 I started to
sell drugs um all the way up to about 16
and a half and at 16 I was arrested
three times and at the same time I found
out I was pregnant so that just fli my
whole life around in many different
places where the program came in play to
help me do that exactly which is put me
back in school um you know get me a
place I was living with my mom at the
time in a studio apartment um just to
prepare myself for being a young mother
um I was 16 I had no idea what I was
getting myself into um between becoming
a young mother and Fa State Prison time
um I think those are two barriers that I
probably won't want to wish on
anybody now Elsie is helping
others today she's dealing with a
client's case in
Conneticut hey how are you um to my
understanding he had a court appearance
today
correct yes correct
and the outcome was
we um to my understanding if he was
being released mom had to be there
correct no
no um I want you know follow up on the
on the status because if we do need to
go up there we just need the heads
up okay appreciate you all right thank
you okay you to
bye yep they want to know nothing until
tomorrow that's another state New York
and Connecticut runs very
different you cannot possibly do this
job if you just coming in here just do a
job and go home this job has more to do
with it mentally we we are fighting
against a system that clearly is not
fair for minorities so it it's like a
balance that is just not fair right home
supposed to be the safe place and safe
home is not safe for most of these kids
who come here
unfortunately um and from that I was
like wow you know like I got to get it
together um because I would have been
crying all the time you know most of our
kids don't get a good deal like we will
hope um you know because we up against a
system that the law comes in play LC
doesn't just work at the nonprofit
thanks to donations she is also studying
at NYU the biggest private university in
the states considering her past her
journey was anything but a
given well my you know between my trauma
that I've been through um between being
in a criminal justice system homeless a
dxic violence
Survivor I will tell my young self that
it's not my
fault um that I am loved there's people
that do care for me um and you can do
anything that you put your mind into um
I think confidence is a very key point
to these kids who go through or being in
the shelter because for some kids is
embarrassed
um and just to make them feel that they
worthy Elsie has managed to come a long
way John and Zoe also hope to be able to
stand on their own two feet soon in
spite of everything they're staying
optimistic ever since she was born I
feel like time has just been flying like
I feel like a month goes by and a week
mhm you know there's no time to think
just everything is just happening at the
same time before I know it we're going
to be all living in our apartment with
our three
cats I've done the most that I've ever
done in my entire life when it comes to
like trying to be
responsible being on top of everything
getting everything that we need together
you know all the paperwork all the
information having to renew stuff it's
it's just been a lot like you know I
feel like I'm I'm pooped I'm ready to go
to sleep and not wake up till next
year
