as it is internal in Tobago and really
amazed by the education system it's like
an example to countries all over the
world that they should learn from this
country you also make sure that
education is free and there's quality
education for every child
over the last five years she has
developed into one of the world's
foremost advocates for children gaining
access to education as well as for
children's rights on the whole this was
the catalyst that transform Malala
yousufzai into a global Crusader and
two-time Nobel Peace Prize nominee who
was to create a strong impression during
her visit to Trinidad and Tobago over
the course of six days international
media attention was focused on this twin
island nation as this courageous
seventeen-year-old would meet children
from across a wide section of society I
took the opportunity to invite her to
see what we are doing and so that she
may inspire us all leaders educators
students and young people to not just
continue the good work to not just
pursue our dreams but like her to never
give up
a major role in the subsequent
proceedings was played by the university
of trinidad and tobago an institution
that is actively sought to develop the
entrepreneurial spirit and proactive
ethic that will lead to the continuous
creation of local businesses jobs and
wealth generation that will enhance the
standard of living within trinidad and
tobago we are always reminded of the
fact that there are those amongst us who
face particular talents enlight these
citizens were certainly not forgotten
during malala's visit to the lady ho
Choi ho Minh Gasparilla the summit of
malala's visit to Trinidad and Tobago
may well have been the rally for local
school students that took place at the
National Academy for the Performing Arts
in Port of Spain you are really lucky
that you have P education and I think
this is this is a great opportunity for
you to focus more on your education and
to continue it because we should not
forget that there are 57 million
or out of school and who really needs
support to what you have got you should
be thankful for it and you should focus
on it seeing here today on here and I
speak you know you really get the
perspective of where we came from on how
blessed we are in Toronto for having
such free education actually right up
until the tissue level this have some
Elysium ages I am as just like wow and
she's doing so many things and it drives
me to do even more
so I really appreciate city and I'm
honored to be here and not for today
yesterday I met amazing person whom I
could not imagine that I would meet ever
in my life I met Brian Lara
I learned some very good things from him
even though he was saying it to my
brother but I picked it out and he was
saying that when you start learning you
learn it step by step if I think that I
want to change the world in two seconds
it can't really be done if you look at
the reality so we have to do things step
by step Ilana's visit to the
emancipation village at the grandstand
of the Queen's Park Savannah was an
appropriate nod to the rewards of
universal liberation among the
highlights of malala's visit were the
opportunities of meeting the Acting
President of the Republic of Trinidad
and Tobago His Excellency Timothy Hamill
Smith as well as the Prime Minister of
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago the
Honorable Kamla posad possessor the
final public engagement of the six-day
experience is an evening with Malala the
National Academy for the Performing Arts
I'm going to give something and I'm
going to take something there are two
reasons I'm going to give something to
this country which is to share my story
to tell children here how important it
is for them to continue their education
to focus on it to make their country
proud in the second one is to take
something nothing which I take is an
example an example to tell the world
that this is a country here education is
free from primary level to secondary and
then to tertiary and children are even
supported in the university level so
this is an example toward it is an
example to every country that they
should learn from this country where
education is free and where every child
has access to school - thank you so much
as it celebrates the 10th anniversary of
its establishment the university of
trinidad and tobago is riding the crest
of a wave of constant expansion utt is
involved not only in education but in
engineering and entrepreneurship in
agriculture and maritime studies
we are soon to launch an aviation
institute and Institute of Finance in
conjunction with the international
financial center Penner and Tobago
studies in video animation and fashion
and many more areas the university of
trinidad and tobago is very honored to
have played an important role in
malala's historic visit the university
of trinidad and tobago would like to
thank all the sponsors who made this
visit possible
