fukushima power plant disaster the power
of atoms released by earthquake
on march 11 2011 the japanese islands
were struck by an earthquake of enormous
force for six minutes the ground was
shaking turning whole towns into piles
of rubble but while the struggle to
recover from the most powerful
earthquake in the history of japan was
going on no one was aware that the
earthquake was the prelude to yet
another drama at the fukushima daiichi
nuclear power plant a disaster of
unprecedented proportions was about to
happen welcome to dark history where we
unravel the most disastrous events in
history
if you want to support the channel
consider subscribing and like this video
the magnitude 9.1 undersea mega thrust
earthquake was not the only disaster
that struck the northeastern coast of
honshu island that day around half an
hour after the earthquake a tsunami hit
the coast it was actually this giant
wave that brought more devastation than
the earthquake more than 200 square
miles of ground were flooded taking away
thousands of lives and causing damage
worth hundreds of billions of dollars at
the town of okuma and the fukushima
prefecture the tsunami flooded the
nuclear power plant cutting off the
power supply to a system responsible for
cooling down the nuclear reactors with
no means to reduce it the temperature of
the reactors increased and eventually
caused explosions in four reactors
the amount of radiation released into
the atmosphere made the fukushima power
plant disaster the second most infamous
nuclear incident in the history of the
world
the 2011 tohoku earthquake was the most
powerful earthquake ever recorded in
japan the epicenter of the magnitude 9.1
thrust was in the northwestern pacific
ocean
45 miles east of oshika peninsula on
honshu island the largest of four
japanese main islands the earthquake was
felt throughout the entire country but
the most powerful vibrations were
recorded in the prefectures of miyagi
fukushima ibaraki
and toshigi
thrust was so powerful that it moved the
island of honshu eight feet east and
shifted the earth on its axis by ten
inches
increasing its rotational speed by 1.8
milliseconds per day
even though the japanese had never
witnessed an earthquake of such an
enormous force
they knew how to behave in such
situations
after all japan is the country with the
most earthquakes in the world one thing
the japanese knew for sure
when a strong earthquake strikes it is
always accompanied by a tsunami tsunamis
are waves produced by undersea
earthquakes
once the waves approach the coast in the
shallow waters they turn into giant
waves
the march 11th earthquake was expected
to produce a tsunami as high as 130 feet
in certain regions the first and the
most powerful earthquake that day
occurred at
46
it lasted for six whole minutes causing
severe damage to infrastructure in the
most affected regions
as soon as the ground stopped trembling
a tsunami warning was issued only a
couple of minutes was given to citizens
in the coastal areas to leave their
homes and run to higher grounds
indeed about half an hour later a mighty
tsunami hit the northeastern coast of
honshu island
not even 18 ft high sea walls were
enough to stop the giant wave
whole towns were engulfed by the sea
water taking everything in its way
compared to the damage inflicted by the
tsunami the earthquake was just a minor
disturbance in the four prefectures most
affected by the earthquake and tsunami
there were four nuclear power plants
with 11 reactors operating at the moment
one of them was tepco's six reactors
fukushima daichi nuclear power plant and
the coastal town of okuma
only reactors 1 2 and 3 were operational
when the earthquake occurred as soon as
the ground started trembling they
automatically shut down and stopped
producing energy the design of reactors
and the entire power plant was robust
enough to withstand earthquakes even of
such tremendous scale however
the damage was inflicted to all six
external power supply sources providing
electricity to pumps needed for cooling
down the reactor's cores
even though the reactors stopped working
the cores continued to heat up due to
the decay heat produced by the
radioactive nuclear fuel after the
fission has ceased
as a result each reactor was equipped
with a pump that circulated water
through reactor cores to cool it down
when these pumps were cut off from the
external power supply sources emergency
diesel generators automatically took
over the cooling of the reactors
everything appeared to be in perfect
order
but then the tsunami came
at 1542
the first 45 feet high wave hit the
daiichi power plant located on the very
coast it was followed by another one
eight minutes later the power plant's 30
foot high sea walls proved inadequate
protection in this situation and the
water broke into the power plant the
diesel generators located in the
basement of the turbine buildings were
flooded and stopped working the whole
power plant went into a blackout more
importantly the reactor cooling system
stopped working the situation caused
serious concern in the plant where an
immediate evacuation of the staff was
ordered
the plant management informed the
fukushima prefecture authorities about
the problem and at around 1903 a nuclear
emergency was declared at 2050 an
evacuation order was issued for all
people within a radius of two kilometers
from the plant half an hour later as the
news of the situation and the plant
reached the government in tokyo
the radius was extended to three
kilometers
with standard pumps unpowered and diesel
generators flooded the planned staff
that remained on the site began
injecting water into the system via an
emergency core cooling system but
unfortunately their effort to connect
the plant to the external power system
was fruitless with the cooling system
out of order the temperature of the fuel
rods inside the reactor pressure vessel
began to rise
producing a lot of steam pressure the
pressure was reduced by venting it to
the suppression pond wet well specially
designed for this purpose
this led however to the decrease of
water level inside the vessel with fuel
rods
three hours after the earthquake the
water level in reactor one dropped below
the top of the fuel rods
one and a half hours later
the water level was already at the
bottom of the fuel rods as the
temperature of fuel rods increased to 2
800 degrees celsius they began to melt
with fuel rods exposed their hot
zirconium cladding came in contact with
the steam producing an enormous amount
of hydrogen the presence of hydrogen
itself was not the problem
however its mixture with oxygen either
pure or in the air is highly explosive
as the plant staff attempted to relieve
the pressure inside the reactor pressure
vessel
the hydrogen was accidentally released
into the service floor at the top of the
reactor building on march 12th at 1536
the mixture of hydrogen and air ignited
and caused a massive hydrogen explosion
that blew off the roof of the reactor
building a similar scenario was going on
in reactors 2 and 3 with a certain delay
however the backup water injection
system in these units was powered by
batteries and was in operation longer
the system collapsed in reactor 3 on
march 12th while in reactor 2 it went
down on march 14th
at 1100 hours on march 14th a hydrogen
explosion blew off the roof and the top
part of the building of reactor number
three
due to the joint piping system some of
the hydrogen leaked to reactor 4
causing the same type of explosion early
in the morning of march 15th
inside reactor 2 there was no explosion
on the service floor to prevent
explosions like those in reactors 1 and
3
the staff opened the blowout panel on
top of the building to vent out the
hydrogen even though they prevented an
explosion
their maneuver led to increased emission
of radioactive gases outside the reactor
building the process of venting out the
pressure was not the only source of
radioactive pollution
it is estimated that most radioactivity
was emitted from reactor 2 where the
meltdown of the nuclear fuel and an
explosion in the primary containment
drywell caused a rupture in the reactor
walls allowing the polluted water to
leak out among fission products released
into the air and sea were iodine 131
ccm-137 and ccm-134
iodine 131 is a volatile radioisotope
with a very short half-life of only
eight days
ccm-137 however has a half-life of more
than 30 years and exposure to large
amounts of it can cause severe sickness
and even death
aware of the dangers caused by the
meltdown of nuclear fuel already on
march 12th the authorities ordered the
evacuation of everyone within a 12-mile
radius from the plant
radioactive releases spread quickly
already on march 12 the day when the
first explosion occurred
increased radiation was detected at a
station 120 miles away two weeks later
radio activity was detected and
measuring stations across the northern
hemisphere the lucky circumstance was
that the amount of radioactivity turned
out to be below the level that could
seriously threaten people's lives and
health the emission of radioactivity was
10 times smaller than at chernobyl the
worst nuclear disaster in the history of
the world
a more controversial issue was the
release of contaminated water into the
ocean
to obtain more storage for highly
contaminated water and with the
government's permission plant staff
released 10 400 cubic meters of
contaminated water to the sea in early
april in addition an unknown amount of
the contaminated water from reactor 2
had leaked through the ground
unlike chernobyl the fukushima nuclear
incident resulted in no direct
casualties however
154 000 people were evacuated from the
area around the plant
it was a huge shock to leave homes and
everything they had to most of them it
is estimated that most of more than two
thousand disaster related deaths were
caused not by radioactivity exposure but
by stress caused by the evacuation and
living in shelters
still
life changed for good for those who
lived within the 143 square miles red
zone even in 2021 this zone remains
evacuated
the march 2011 events were a disaster of
enormous proportions
the forces of nature were relentless and
unstoppable what happened at the
fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant
seemed like an unfortunate outcome of a
natural disaster that could not be
prevented however the truth was quite
different
the independent investigation commission
set up by the national parliament
determined that the plant power tokyo
electric power company tepco
had failed to meet the safety
requirements in case of natural
disasters
and completely ignored the tsunami risk
assessments based on the latest
researches tepco management failed to
improve a number of features that would
have prevented the disaster
starting from low sea barriers over
inadequate cooling systems to unclear
instructions given to employees in case
of an incident the company management
was accused of negligence to maintain
the myth of absolute safety of nuclear
power
if the risks were publicly acknowledged
the management feared the public would
demand the plans to shut down therefore
any kind of preparation in case of
nuclear incidents was not allowed in
order not to disturb the public
a part of the blame was also on the
government which failed to force the
nuclear power plants to implement
adequate safety measures
paradoxically the nuclear safety
regulatory regime that was supposed to
do the job was under the jurisdiction of
the ministry of economy trade and
industry one of the fiercest promoters
of nuclear energy twelve days after the
earthquake reactors at the fukushima
nuclear power plant were connected to
external power sources and the cooling
of reactors one to three was
re-established
on august 10th
work began on building covers over the
reactors to prevent further emission of
radioactive particles at the same time
cleanup crews have already removed much
of the radioactive debris from the site
nine months after the incident three
damaged reactors were put into a stable
state of cold shutdown
the fukushima power plant disaster
brought significant changes in japan's
energy policy
public confidence in the safety of
nuclear power was greatly damaged
despite the government's intention to
increase the participation of nuclear
power plants and overall power
production
they were forced to reduce the nation's
reliance on nuclear power
immediately after the fukushima disaster
all but two nuclear reactors in the
country were temporarily shut down
the government ordered nuclear risk and
safety reassessments and formed a new
nuclear regulatory agency
within the environment ministry to
control the work of nuclear power plants
the fukushima nuclear disaster taught
the japanese and the whole world that
the horrifying strength of nuclear power
should never be taken for granted
i hope you found this video interesting
if you did please like and subscribe see
you next time
