like walking into here there's nothing
in here that's like oh yeah I might want
to try that I've tried celery I threw
that up instantly I don't want to
say I'm addicted to mac and cheese but
because it sounds so weird but like my
body won't let me eat anything else I
didn't choose to be like this why do
they have so many broccolis you know do
you eat the bush I never would have
chosen to be like this looking at that
there's like Gore I'd rather have random
chemicals than knowing that like I got
to drain the blood out of my meat oh I'm
actually like serious like like this is
a problem it's weird for me to think of
eating any food that's not yellow my
name is Austin and for the past 17 years
I've eaten almost nothing but mac and
cheese
[Music]
this is my go-to pan and I don't really
like to deviate there's another pan that
my grandma sometimes uses but like if a
different pan gets used like I can tell
I try to keep everything super specific
that way stuff just stays the same I'm
20 years old and I live in Keystone
Heights Florida
it's a backwater for sure everyone was
kind of the same and if you were any
different than the norm it was super
weird like I've seen it's kind of crazy
all stacked up like that kind of puts
into perspective just a week supply of
mac and cheese at all times I don't
think I've ever really met anyone who
said how I don't like mac and cheese
I love this cheese because some good-ass
cheese this is what normal cheese looks
like to me you know there was some
cheese sauce should look like not a
heathen
so I don't eat with this like a wooden
spoon I eat with some silverware I'll
just take a seat at my desk and normally
I'll just watch some YouTube will eat
most of my diet like nine times out of
ten in the gaming night is gonna be
Velveeta shells
I'll eat deluxe for cheese and normal
craft Annie's and Bob Evans Bob Evans is
pretty good for like I'm microwaved mac
and cheese I think most people see Mac
and cheeses that comfort food I mean you
can't deny how good mac and cheese
tastes man like it's definitely still
like a comfort food for me it's cuz it
does taste good
I'm like a walking advertisement for a
bubble you know Internet but it's
definitely a problem I'm sick of it but
in the same way like I don't want
anything else you know
when I try to eat new foods the first
thing that happens is like blinders on
the food gets to the point where it's
like somehow in my hand I'm about to eat
it like that
as soon as I enters my mouth it's just
like a sensory overload of all the
things this is the texture this is the
consistency this is how it feels in your
mouth Oh Oh God there's the taste and
there's a bunch of new flavors that
you've never experienced before even if
I like what I'm trying I'll still have
like this just kind of involuntary gag
if I don't like it sometimes I'm
actually just straight-up
thrown out like on the spot I've never
bought anything other than mac and
cheese for myself whenever I go shopping
this is all that I'll eat of velveeta
like I don't like any of these other
things so Vitas always just been the
most consistent it always tastes pretty
much exactly the same I didn't even know
they got many ones but I don't even want
to try the mini ones just cuz they'd be
different you know like two different oh
the bacon one grosses me out I can't
stand the thought of mixing that with
mac and cheese white bean I don't know
what that is anything that adds to mac
and cheese like don't it's mac and
cheese not mac and cheese and white bean
like in this it's an abomination you're
going into some some vomiting territory
I hate peppers this makes my stomach
queasy just like looking at it the
texture of pasta and it was like my
favorite because it's like not mushy
until you chew it I know it's so bad for
you when I read the ingredients I don't
know what enriched macaroni product
means like like a bunch of stuff that
I'm familiar with but then a bunch of
other stuff that sounds like it could be
used to make like a chemical weapon I
could get some four cheese but like nah
nah there's definitely a lot of things
I'm missing out on because of not eating
that thing whatever that is like the
color throws me off of that like the
color makes me upset I have any one
worked up the courage just because like
bitter things is such a strong reaction
meat is like the worst one to me that
was like a chunk of meat from an animal
that had like muscle and fiber and like
veins in it oh my god uh it's kind of
like a comfort zone in the hellscape
that is the raw meat vegetables I know
that I need to eat do you just eat an
eggplant like just take a bite out of it
or like what do you use a knife plant
for it when I'm over there at the mac
and cheese out I know that there's
something that I can walk up to and yep
pick it up put it in my cart like this
my girl I'd rather just stick with my my
ride-or-die you know
what brings you to counselling at this
time I have been doing or ears with
being and extremely picky eater please
dr. Dean
my social life and I soon fear it will
begin to my physical health this is my
contact information for the therapist
that I found I even find out that
selective Indian disorder was an actual
diagnosable disorder until I was out of
high school I was laying in bed and I
was just scrolling through YouTube it's
like seven people who eat only one thing
or something like that it was by good
mythical morning good mythical morning
what if you could only eat one thing for
the rest of your life that is the
question of the day thought about that a
lot at the very beginning he starts
specifying egos so this is an actual
disorder
it's called selective eating disorder
it's where these people have an
avoidance to new foods and they just
latch on to one food and I was like oh
my god I'm not crazy like it has a name
this thing that's been hanging over my
head so that means that I have a point
to attack it from have you seen him
Intel professional before yes I have I
was recommended to go to a mental health
professional by DCF where I was
diagnosed with PTSD from an abusive
household my parents did the best they
could with what they had my dad was
really awesome sometimes and sometimes
he was not so awesome you know like
there's a lot of conflicts it would get
physical between me and my dad and where
I actually got removed from the home
that day was I was asked to take the
trash out and so like I took the trash
out and there was like a stack of papers
right after the trash and so my dad
comes out and he starts yelling at me
for taking his lid I guess it was like
payroll papers or something something
really important like that he comes up
and he tried to take my my skateboard
for me because of course I skateboard
and he walked back in he was like I just
snapped up
I just amped that board I just
your board over my knee and like that
was the first thing that I'd ever bought
like on my own like with my own money
and so like I just turned and I kicked
at the wall my foot went through the
wall
my dad charged at me knocked me down and
pummeled me while I was on the ground
and he slammed my head into a coffee
table I was all bloody and I passed out
on on my neighbor that was when DCF came
in and started like an investigation it
was definitely during that time were
like I was like just super super sad
that's where I get the idea from like ie
mac-and-cheese because like in that time
it was the only thing that like if I
asked for like on a bad day wouldn't
cause conflict I had to learn how to
make it myself it was always like well I
know that I'm gonna have mac and cheese
like I can control that he never could
say why he didn't want to eat anything
else
we've never forced him I never tried to
force him that's real hard for me
because I'm from old school I was
brought up to someone fixed my plates
you eat everything without it and you
stayed there till you did eat everything
that was on it I love my grandparents
they're very accepted they never make me
feel ashamed about it it's never like
you need to change you have something
wrong it's always like we're just
worried that you're unhealthy I think
you'll always be with me yeah
and I don't care hey he wants to stay
here until he's thirty it's okay with me
maybe not so much grandpa but he's a
good boy Jerris like my brother
essentially he's like my best friend
above all I can probably count on two
fingers the amount of time that I've
brought up like my eating which eret I
think he had told me about it before the
okie eight was mac and cheese and it
seemed kind of weird at first but I
don't really judge people I don't know
cuz it's like if you want help I'm not
against helping you but it you know it's
kind of one of those things like you
can't help someone that doesn't want
help yeah and it seems like you get a
lot of opportunities to try all their
foods and you showed no interest in it
so again I'm not going to push the issue
because I know I can't change your mind
true I definitely used to be embarrassed
like oh man I'm just weird there was a
time where like I just felt excluded I
barely ever even really go out to eat
with my friend because I don't just be
sitting at the table with my plate of
mac and cheese as opposed to everyone's
full plate a lot of people struggle to
understand
so like a lot of people that I choose to
tell about it don't ask you know because
they they know that I'm actually like
serious like like this is a problem you
know heading to ground zero boxing it
became like a thing where like I just
wanted to prove to myself having the
background of like my trauma as a kid
and having PTSD and not being able to be
around any kind of like physical
conflict to like going and being in a
ring or so on and just like straight
beating the out of each other it
felt like I was like I was making myself
feel worthy I started boxing three years
ago whenever I went for the first couple
of times like I just loved the working
out and then I loved feel like I was
like a part of something my coach's name
is Giovanni he's just the best dudes
like a dad to me
I exercise four times a week really
heavily at the gym I got up to like a
really unhealthy weight because I
stopped going to boxing so I could tie
I'm at the age now where I know that my
metabolism has slowed down I definitely
know that I have to maintain physical
activity to keep myself it is to
counteract my terrible awful carb filled
diet I went to the doctor for a physical
five weeks ago now it's a new doctor so
I told him not only eating mac and
cheese for like 17 years and he was like
when you're older it's gonna be a
problem
music but for right now I have no
worries part of me kind of wishes he
would have said something more scary
than you're fine I feel like I need
someone to tell me like you don't change
like you're gonna fuel the consequences
you know he told me at a mac and cheese
diet and I was like what
as I well you know you're boxing but
you're gonna have to start eating right
if you want to go ahead and get in
better shape come on show me your winner
let's go when it comes to mental health
issues if you can't talk about what's
going on then you can't get the help you
need I feel like a lot of men think
that's a weakness when it's not you know
there's a problem the weakness is
ignoring it let's go let's go finish
strong pretty strong that's all you got
now bad kid not bad so grandpa and
grandma send my love okay of course more
than anything I want to be like my best
me and I'm taking steps to get there
tomorrow I'm meeting a new therapist
named Ashley I hope it's gonna give me
the ability to be at a neutral unbiased
stance whenever I try new foods it's
like the stepping stone to being able to
do the things that I want to do easier
it's been about two years since I've
been to a therapist office she had never
dealt with anyone who had sed her
solution was to just just go home and
like soak some broccoli and cheese and
just try it if only it was that easy
whenever I left there to try and find
another therapists office it was very
very difficult and has proved to be very
difficult to find any reasonable
therapist who takes my insurance
insurance companies seem to think that
mental health is like a luxury you know
nice to meet you we're gonna take a seat
tell me more about your story for so
long like it was just a shadow that just
like loomed over me
as soon as I knew that it had a name
like it gave me like a hope wait what is
a normal day like running eating for you
I'll have like a box of Velveeta shells
mac and cheese that's typically just
what I eat through the day like that's
it pretty specifically that brand a
single kind right I'm just alone in my
room eating it and if you went back to
that planning piece what do you see in
that dinner has always been water pan
pot you know like on the stove eight
minutes and then like you're done that
means we want to look at what meals have
been like throughout life I never
remember ever eating family dinners like
at the table and I would always eat mac
and cheese all the adults said it was
just like oh it's just an it was picky
eater phase yeah anytime I try something
new even if I like the first bite of it
I almost will always have an involuntary
just a gag what's the experience that
goes with that gagging what have you
noticed oh it's embarrassing I think
it's super embarrassing I think through
the lens of trauma a lot mm-hmm so have
you experienced physical abuse yes and
so if you think a fight flight or freeze
yeah I was a freezer can you relate
those feelings now to what it's like
approaching foods if I sit down and like
I'm in a room with the intention of
trying a new food then my stress like
immediately skyrockets like and it like
stays up until like the penultimate
moment hits we're like I try it and then
like I have that guy reflux I'm like all
right out of the way I didn't like it
and then like it's it's done and then
like it goes down or like I get out of
the room and then it goes down you
basically draw the stress curve of your
hand whenever you're done yeah what's
happening that's part of what my job is
to teach people yeah to understand
what's happening and that it will have a
beginning and end it's going to come up
yeah and it's gonna go down like a wave
right but we often feel it rising and
think that it's gonna continue to just
go up yet what we want to do as we're
approaching foods as know what might
happen
okay and regardless we're going to be
working on building skills to keep you
grounded in your body you know we'll be
looking at a hierarchy of foods that
you'll establish right and so it's
exposure and then it starts to
extinguish some of the fear we build a
new pathway and that pathway it looks
like I actually can feel this feeling
and go forward right and with I just
hope like I can get to a place where
like I'm equipped to deal with like what
I'm feeling when I try new foods that
way I can try new foods out like a
neutral unbiased look you know like
instead of just having the massive
anxiety associated with it you know it's
completely separated from from like who
I Who I am you know it's like a relic of
whenever I was in like a worse mental
place and like it's just kind of stuck
with me you know like that is a really
great way to conceptualize it yeah it's
a part of you you don't need anymore
yeah but that is so deeply ingrained
that it's still there yeah you have a
lot of insight you're pretty motivated
to do it yeah oh yeah for sure
so I can like slowly open up like what
restaurants I go to and stuff you won't
be able to go to more restaurants more
restaurants just be more social with
with with eating and stuff you know what
we'll do from here is just look at
frequency and when you can come in next
so that it can make the most of your
time in your commute I'm super excited
all right Austin thank you so much for
coming in yes I'm so excited to work
with you safe travels back thank you
very much you have a good day
it was wonderful meeting Austin he has
so much insight and such an openness to
developing a better understanding and
he's truly motivated to do this work
even though he knows it's gonna be
really uncomfortable for him I think we
went better than expected
actually she's definitely really cool
definitely gives me hope especially
since she's so confident and how much
I'll succeed like makes me it makes me
feel really good makes me feel really
confident mac and cheese for money is a
comfort food for Austin well it has had
that effect it's not about that anymore
he would like to be able to eat other
foods to have variety and to eat
vegetables nobody feels crippled and
paralyzed by the idea of doing so and so
he falls back on mac and cheese because
it's what his brain and body will allow
it's where he can have some peace and so
you're having to work against your body
to get yourself to sit with food in your
mouth the perceived threat is so much
more than the actual experience but you
can't convince your body of that without
doing a lot of work to chip away at it
I'm not ashamed of Who I am I wouldn't
want my kids to see me just eating mac
and cheese all the time well while my
kids eat a more balanced meal than me oh
my god I found out about selective eater
sorter just by pure luck it was just
like an aimless thing that just hung
over me and like I just thought like
that was just one of my idiosyncrasies
it's like one of my little quirks I
definitely didn't choose to be like this
at all this selective eating disorders
has its hooks in me and it's just like
holding me back
it's exciting thinking like I could get
to a point where like I'm able to try
new foods and possibly you know like
them and enjoy them
[Music]
hey I should have been talking about
something dramatic
