the director of the controversial
documentary called India's daughter has
left India because of concerns for her
safety she's now in London her film
examines the gang rape and murder of a
23-year-old woman on a bus in Delhi the
BBC broadcast it last night other
broadcasters globally are going to do
the same in the days to come and it has
brought a storm of controversy in India
because of comments made by one of the
rapists about his victim here's some of
that as we take a look at an excerpt of
India's
[Music]
daughter there are the incendiary
comments and that is part of the
documentary so Nala AED our reporter is
actually in India in New Delhi and
covering the story for us among other
things on the ground but let's talk
about the the controversy that surrounds
that as I mentioned the BBC broadcast
last night a contentious decision to ER
it tell us a little bit about the film
itself and the
controversy well as you said this is a
documentary that's been long in the
making that takes another look at that
horrific incident about two years ago
where a young woman was gang raped and
uh later died because of her injuries
that essentially was I think many people
here would agree was a watershed moment
for women in this country there's a
great deal of outrage and anger over
that attack and several protests largely
by women were mounted at the time
because U of of what happen and because
of Demands uh for the laws to be changed
now the most contentious aspect is the
one you mentioned and that is the
interview with mukes Singh he is one of
the four men who were convicted and
sentenced to death in fact for their
participation in this attack he was
interviewed a couple of years ago and
now will be appearing or is appearing in
this documentary as you mentioned he has
said things that have outraged people
here in fact around the world he said
that um the victim should not have
fought the rape that perhaps she might
have survived if she hadn't he said that
girls are more responsible for rape than
boys and you can imagine those kinds of
uh commentary have made people quite
angry
here however the fact that the
government has banned this documentary
from
the airwaves here has received a mixed
reaction obviously many people here
concerned about India's reputation and
saying that the documentary perhaps
might Sully that reputation others
though saying that it shouldn't be shown
because the legal process continues in
this case in fact those four men uh have
appealed to the Supreme Court uh for the
death sentence and that procedure is not
over and some feel that legally this man
should not have been allowed to speak
from jail until this legal proceeding is
over so quite a mixed reaction action
here over this documentary and what
about particular reaction because as
you've covered this Nala you have spoken
as well to the family of the young woman
who's right at the heart of this
documentary who was raped and then
murdered what did her family members
say as you can imagine completely
outraged by the interview and and quite
upset by the commentary it is their
daughter who perished in this and um
they they didn't take kindly to those
comments so the mother told us that she
actually went to court when the news
first broke about this document
she lodged a complaint it said that this
should this should never have been
allowed she told us that uh this is his
mentality she's talking about Mr sing
that he has said those kinds of things
in court where he mocked the family and
was laughing while the proceedings were
going on the father told us that this
sort of uh I guess allowance of him
speaking from jail is abusive of the
system but also of all women he said and
he encouraged every single woman um to
oppose it and to go to the Prime
Minister and demand not only to ensure
that they are kept safe but also that
they expedite this um death penalty so
very angry about the commentary here now
thank you very much Nala AED from India
live this morning the documentary banned
in that country but is due to be aired
in Denmark Sweden Switzerland and Norway
as well as this country on this very
Network in fact it airs 1000 p.m. Sunday
which is international women's day
you'll see it on the passionate eye
here's a little bit
more
nobody is a monster that he is excluded
from society after all
