hello everyone and welcome to retail
archaeology today we're gonna be taking
another look at Metro Center Mall to see
how it's doing since some time has
passed and also since the Wal Mart is
opened and as you can see here the Wal
Mart is open and it's pretty busy but
it's actually not attached to Metro
Center Mall they leveled the old
Broadway anchor for this and then built
this Walmart there but there's actually
a gap between the two so it makes the
mall look kind of weird now we're gonna
continue our tour by taking a little bit
more of a closer look at some of the
outside of the mall like this Sears
building for instance because I find
this mall just to be really
architectural interesting I love that
building now here's the Dillard's and
this is also another interesting looking
building and I love those lights in the
front this still is actually only
occupies the top floor of their building
now though it's a Dillard's clearance
center kind of similar to the one at
Fiesta mall and here is the long closed
Macy's you can see the label scar there
and we'll get a closer look at it here
in a minute this is one of my favorite
buildings is this old Macy's buildings
it was originally 8 Goldwater's and I
love the front entrance there it's so
grand and so 1970s it's fantastic and I
love the gold tiles
look at how high up that goes it's just
absolutely amazing I love that this
anchor has been vacant since 2015 and
it's really starting to show the fact
that it's been vacant as we'll see here
in a little bit I love these tiles if
they ever knocked this building down I
want to rummage through the rubble pile
for a few of these because I just I love
them and I really like the stonework or
I guess you can call that pebble work on
the columns here as well you just don't
see that kind of stuff anymore Metro
Center Mall opened in 1973 and a lot of
the outside of it is very stylistically
the same as it was when it opened for
example this old Goldwater's which
eventually became a Macy's it was a
couple of different anchors in between
totally empty in there though and here's
a another entrance on the other side and
this one's really gross actually all the
spiderwebs
[Music]
[Music]
I always found empty department stores
to just look really eerie
now this is another empty anchor the
last thing this was was a JC Penney's
but it had been a few other things as
well in the past and there's an elevator
or was an elevator inside this big glass
column kind of thing here he goes way up
there
you see there a few of the windows have
been broken too and they've just
replaced them with wood
[Music]
this anchor has been vacant for a while
as well and it's it's starting to show
inside you'll see here there's pieces of
the ceiling falling down and you can see
the door for the elevator there as well
and here we're looking in that a glass
column area and you can see the back
door of the elevator there
now let's take a look at the inside of
the mall and as you can see when we get
in here it is even worse than the last
time we visited we visited here on a
Saturday afternoon this is about one
o'clock in the afternoon and there's
just not a lot of people here and
there's many more vacant stores I do
love that tile floor though that is one
of my favorite things about this mall
you can see here they've just got a
whole set of escalators blocked off and
not working and this is just not a
healthy look for a mall on a Saturday
afternoon we're walking towards the
Sears right now and one of the other
things I love about the smallest the
skylights the circular and rectangular
skylights makes it very bright in here
to give you a little update on some of
the recent history of the small the last
time it changed hands was in 2012 when
it was sold to the Carlyle Group for a
little over twelve million dollars and
they had stated at the time that they
hoped in the next five to six years to
redevelop it into a mixed-use
residential medical business and retail
area but like I said they bought it in
2012 and they said five to six years so
we're starting to get towards the end of
that time frame and it doesn't look like
any sort of redevelopment besides the
new Walmart has really happened or is
planned anytime soon and like I
mentioned it's getting much worse it's
starting to get to the level of how
Fiesta mall looked when I first started
documenting it it's it's really dying in
here which is really unfortunate another
really interesting factoid about this
mall is that like I mentioned in my
other videos this was used in the
movie Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure
is a filming location this was San Dimas
mall in the film it looks a little bit
different now because it was remodeled
in 2007 although a lot of the stuff that
was done here still looks 90s to me for
example the the tile floor and
everything
now this Strutt lab thing really caught
my eye because strut was actually
something I participated in in high
school in the late 90s and if I remember
correctly that stands for students
refurbishing used technology and
basically what we did is we took old
donated computers and refurbished them
to donate them to nonprofits and schools
like that and we got school credit for
that I got my A+ certification doing
that which is not current like I said it
was in the late 90s when I did that so
another sign of a dead mall there's like
a I wouldn't call that a charter school
I guess but there's like a little
educational thing going on in there
there's the Phoenix sofa factory over
there
and I love that elevator
seriously though like 1 to 2 p.m. on a
Saturday afternoon and this is what it
looks like
GNC all the way across the way there
another dead mall staple
and another really cool skylight
see what I mean though that looks very
similar to how fiesta mob was looking
towards the end
[Music]
another reason why I wanted to do this
video a kind of a selfish reason is I
recently acquired a new camera so this
is being filmed with a brand new GoPro
Hero 6 black that I recently got and I
chose that camera because it's little
and it has a lot of different filming
options and features like I can film in
1080p I can film in 4k I can film an
ultra slow motion but also it's really
tiny and it films pretty smoothly I
think so you got the window down in the
comments what you think of this camera
and also what you think of sassy there
and white sassy didn't make it this
store was cracking me up to you because
it was a vape shop which is already kind
of lame but then they had fidget
spinners in the glass case as well I
guess the the fidget spinner slash vape
business model wasn't sustainable now
this is interesting what we're looking
at here is the interior entrance to that
old goldwater slash Macy's anchor that's
now empty and you can tell this is old
school department store with the big
glass cases there and you can see the
tile also matches although they've
painted it white which sucks that tile
was gold at one point inside the mall as
well I've seen old footage of the small
in the 1980s with that tile being gold I
don't know why you would paint white
over it like that it just looks awful I
don't know if you'd even ever be able to
get that white paint off of there
although I don't know if anybody cares
either
and here we can see where the entrance
to the Walmart would be if it was
attached to the mall and this is another
wing that is very dead there's nothing
down here except for the anime store
which a lot of people have commented on
the previous video about well this time
I actually got a little bit of footage
of the inside of the anime shop in case
you're interested and as you can see
there's actually some people shopping in
here I was actually kind of surprised to
find people in here with it being the
only thing open all the way down on this
wing of the mall I want to take a minute
so you think body and tag for once again
providing the music for this episode
I'll flash a link to his band camp page
down there so you can check out this
particular album which is OS 10 paradise
and one that I enjoy quite a bit that
storefront there that marbled one it's
been empty for a while and that's
actually one of my most favourite empty
storefronts in this mall it's like the
definition of aesthetic right there and
we've got ade now and then one in two
trinket shops down there take a quick
look at the food court and you can see
this is also not busy I think this is
about 1:30 in the afternoon at that
point when we filmed the food court and
you can see there's a lot of vacancies
in the food court a lot more than the
last time I was here and not a lot of
people eating
very quiet for a Saturday afternoon I do
an invention that we are going to be
documenting the area around Metro Center
Mall as well as it changes and evolves
into what its gonna become eventually
who knows what who knows what that's
going to be but there's a lot of other
interesting things surrounding Metro
Center Mall to look at so definitely
expect more videos on that coming soon
and look here's a cool arcade and I'm
going to turn the music down a little
bit because there's actually some
old-school games in here and I want you
to be able to hear what an old-school
arcade sent inside a dead ball
love that Street better to cabinet I
used to play it's Hana Street Fighter 2
in the mall when I was a kid and it was
really cool to hear that cabinet again
it warms my heart to see these games
going in an arcade in the mall even if
it is a dead mall and who knows how long
this arcade will actually be here now
what we're gonna take a look at here is
probably the busiest area of the mall
this is right in front of the like guest
services and security desk and this is
where life is still clinging into a
little bit but if you remember Fiesta
mall that was kind of the last holdout
area to was right near the guest
services and security desk there was
some store still open the play area you
know things like that so again very
similar to Fiesta mall gonna leave you
with this shot of this little empty
store just cuz I thought it was cute
anyways let me know what you guys
thought of this update video down in the
comments below and as always thanks for
watching
want to see your name here head on over
to patreon comm slash retail archeology
to find out how you can help support the
channel
also make sure you're following at these
social media links down below because
YouTube notifications have been trashed
lately and that's the best way to find
out when I've got a new video out and
also if you're not a subscriber already
make sure to hit those like and
subscribe buttons if you enjoyed this
video and once again thanks for watching
