1918 in the first world war is finally
over as punishment for losing Germany's
two wartime allies the austro-hungarian
and ottoman Empires were carved up
shortly afterwards the pressures of
defeat plunged Germany into chaos and as
a result the Kaiser abdicated Revolution
and counter-revolution were the order of
the day and in the small town of Weimar
Berlin was too dangerous the Weimar
Republic was declared the next year the
Allies signed the Treaty of Versailles
which dictated the terms of Allied
Victory this territory was lost and the
Rhineland was occupied by the Allies
Germany further had to reduce its
military massively pay War reparations
and also had to accept almost full
responsibility for the war's outbreak so
this new Weimar Republic is one of the
most democratic nations in the world at
that point suffrage was granted to
everyone over the age of 20 including
women the German people could vote on
two aspects of the national government
every seven years they voted on a
president who presided over the German
Parliament the reichstag every four
years people would vote for political
parties in national elections for the
reichstag virus system known as
proportional representation whereby the
percentage of votes nationally dictated
percentage of seats in the reichstag the
president could call elections whenever
he felt and also had the important job
of appointing the chancellor who ran the
government and could proposed laws these
laws had to be passed by a majority vote
in the reichstag and since no party ever
got 50 of the seat that meant the
parties would have to cooperate no
democracy did not guarantee Harmony and
there was numerous attempts at
revolutions such as the quickly aborted
Socialist Republic of Bavaria and the
1920 Revolution led by Dr Wolfgang cap
seized Berlin and the German Army
refused to attack him because there was
a strong belief that Germany had only
lost the war due to political betrayal
Cap's Revolution was only ended by a
general strike which crowned the country
to a halt this turmoil did not help the
German economy and eventually Germany
missed a war payment the French wished
to punish the Germans for this whereas
the British wanted leniency the French
government decided that if the Germans
would not pay them then they'd simply
take the money instead and in 1923 the
French occupied the heavily
industrialized region of the rur the
reason for this was that German
reparations could be paid in raw
materials many of which were produced
there another way that German
reparations could be paid was in foreign
currencies which were paid for by
printing more paper marks this created
the hyperinflation that the Weimar
Republic is famous for for example in
January 1923 a loaf of bread cost 163
marks and in early November in 1923 the
same loaf of bread cost over 75 billion
marks in November 1923 another attempted
revolution occurred in Munich led by a
certain Adolf Hitler and undertaken by
the sa the military arm of the National
Socialist German Workers Party better
known as the Nazi party this revolution
failed when other nationalist
politicians refused to help Hitler and
the Army was called in Hitler was
wounded and arrested shortly afterwards
it was imprisoned that Hitler dictated
his autobiography Mein Kampf which
became the Bedrock of Nazi ideology all
of this would make it seem like the
Weimar Republic was about to immediately
collapse but it managed to survive
thanks to the intervention of two
specific individuals Gustav strasserman
who helped to repair relations with
France and Charles Dawes an American who
would later become vice president who
helped to relieve some of Germany's
economic problems Germany's repayments
were lowered the French agreed to leave
the and America agreed to loan Germany
money which created a strong economic
leap between the two countries so then
the Great Depression struck tanking the
U.S economy and dragging Germany's down
with it Paul Von Hindenburg the
president of Germany at the time failed
to get the reichstag to agree on a
response or anything as a result he had
to invoke article 48 which allowed the
president to pass laws without the
approval of the reichstag in times of
Emergency the biggest problem with
article 48 was that there was no
definition of an emergency meaning it
was open to abuse the German people
turned to different political parties to
fix the problems some chose communism
whereas others placed their faith in the
National socialists the Nazis believed
that the german-speaking peoples should
be United in a single state they argued
that Communists and the Jews were the
enemies of the German people and as such
had to be removed the Nazis were popular
because they wished to disregard the
Treaty of Versailles which many Germans
considered insulting they also wish to
limit any foreign involvement in German
Affairs by limiting the rights and
numbers of foreigners in Germany another
reason was people's anger with the
continuing economic crises which they
were desperate to end a series of
Elections led to a massive increase in
in the number of seats held by the Nazis
and by 1932 they were the largest Party
by far after continuously coming first
Hitler asked president hinderberg to be
made Chancellor which he refused several
times because they were worried that
Hitler would overthrow the government
yet eventually after the Nazis
continuous victories and elections
Hindenburg agreed to give him the job in
January 1933. so Hitler immediately
began working to overthrow the
government a fire started in the
reichstag by a young Dutch communist was
used by Hitler to paint all Communists
as the enemies of Germany Hindenburg
under pressure from Hitler issued the
reichstag fire decree and the reichstag
passed the enabling act which suspended
many civil liberties and made Hitler the
de facto dictator of Germany these were
passed mainly because the opposing
communist parties were outlawed and that
the vote was being held in a building
filled with armed members of the sa over
the next few months Hitler established
the secret police the Gestapo in order
to help Shore up his position he
outlawed trade unions as they were seen
as breeding grounds for Communists and
in July he abolished all other political
parties in 1934 Hitler ordered the SS
another paramilitary group and the
Gestapo to eliminate his enemies which
included the head of the sa Ernst room
in an event known as the night of the
Long Knives this was mainly because
Hitler felt that the essay was the only
force that could stop him shortly after
this purge president Hindenburg died and
Hitler assumed the role of President as
well as that of the chancellor he
declared himself the fuhrer of Germany
and using article 48 create a
single-party dictatorship the lives of
Germans changed massively under the new
Nazi regime the media was brought under
the control of Joseph Goebbels the
minister for propaganda Heinrich Himmler
was placed in command of the gestapo and
the SS who were ordered to crack down on
anyone who disagreed with the Nazi
government Germans for the most part
accepted having less freedoms in return
for a higher standard of living and
because the Nazis had ended the chaos
from the decade before they took power
the Nazi government established the
German labor front which was like a
trade Union except without the
representation the Nazis also
established the strength through Joy
program which was designed to keep
workers happy it even helped to produce
class barriers by making vacations clubs
Cinemas and other recreational
activities open to people outside of the
upper classes its most popular creation
was the people's car better known as the
Volkswagen which further which the class
divide since it could be paid for in
installments in 1936 Hermann Gering was
put in charge of the economy beginning
the four-year plan which was supposed to
make Germany entirely self-sufficient
within four years unemployment virtually
disappeared conscription was instated a
major public works were undertaken most
famously the Autobahn and the Berlin
Olympic Games the most important part of
the four-year plan was that it saw the
beginning of German rearmament which was
a violation of the Treaty of Versailles
Hitler's plan to unify the German people
picked up towards the end of the 30s in
1938 after some double dealing threat
and the referendum German troops March
into Austria and Hitler announced its
annexation after negotiations with the
British and the French it was agreed
that Germany would Annex the ethnically
German sudeten land from Czechoslovakia
Germany soon afterwards occupied half of
it which wasn't agreed the lithuanians
then caved into Hitler's demands for
this territory the British and the
French afraid of a new major war in
Europe did nothing to deter Hitler from
seizing more and more territory or
re-arming which served only to embolden
him an agreement was then made between
Germany and the Soviet Union to divide
Poland and on September 1 1939 the
Germans invaded and two weeks later the
Soviets would do the same beginning the
second world war France and Britain had
an agreement with Poland and declared
war on Germany although Germany would
quickly overrun France in 1941 the
Germans invaded the Soviet Union shortly
before declaring war in the United
States two very bad ideas the Germans
were initially very successful and by
1943 the Third Reich looked like this
the Allies particularly the British and
the United States began bombing
campaigns against German cities most
notably cologne Hamburg and of course
Dresden these attacks were designed to
destroy German factories and
infrastructure as well as frighten the
Germans into submission the German
economy didn't change drastically at the
beginning of the war since Germany had
already been producing arms for many
years one major difference between
Germany and the Allies was that Germany
was very reluctant to have women working
in the factories which ultimately
lowered the number of available workers
and Frontline soldiers in the conquered
territories the Nazis implemented a
policy of forced labor in Poland many
women were forced to work farmlands to
produce food whilst men worked in
factories many Jewish people alongside
anyone else is considered undesirable
were used for slave labor to produce
weapons some of which they sabotaged
throughout Europe the Jewish populations
were rounded up and placed into
concentration camps the original purpose
of these camps was not extermination but
forced labor although they all had
horrendous mortality rates before and
throughout the war the Nazis had
attempted to decide on what they would
do with the Jewish population of Europe
at first the Nazis wish to deport them
and in fact some were sent to Palestine
it wasn't until 1942 that the camps
began to explicitly exterminate
prisoners or that specialized
extermination camps were opened the
best-known camps being Auschwitz and
tablinka where over one and a half
million people were killed between them
throughout the Holocaust it is believed
that roughly five and a half million
Jews were killed alongside roughly the
same amount of poles and Soviet
prisoners gypsies those with mental and
physical disabilities as well as
homosexuals were also exterminated
alongside them having failed to conquer
the Soviet Union the tide of the war
changed against the Nazis and the
Soviets managed to force them all the
way back into Germany liberating many of
the concentration camps on the way at
the same time the United States United
Kingdom and Canada amongst others
invaded West in Europe and together they
managed to push the Nazis back into
Germany as well most of the German High
command including Hitler committed
suicide in April 1945 and Germany
surrendered in May thus ending the Third
Reich in the Nazi regime Germany was
occupied in the surviving Nazi leaders
were put on trial at Nuremberg where
many were sentenced to death after it
surrender Germany and Berlin were split
into occupied zones and both began the
process of denotification the Allied
occupation zones were soon combined into
the Federal Republic of Germany and the
soviet-occupied zones became the German
Democratic Republic known as Western
East Germany respectively they would
remain divided until 1990 at the end of
the Cold War ultimately the legacy of
Nazi Germany is complex the Nazis whilst
committing unimaginable crimes managed
to reinvigorate Germany and build it
into a military Powerhouse the Nazis
brought about immense suffering across
the European continent and their actions
produced many countries including
Germany itself to ruins the consequences
of Nazism are still being examined
because frankly it's still too soon to
know exactly what they are I hope you
enjoyed this episode and thank you for
watching
