they call her real-life mermaid a golden
haired girl with the tail of a fish who
swims the shock stingrays and make
friends with killer whales and dolphins
which is no creature of a fairy tale or
may this is a story of a modern-day
mermaid his life underwater took the
world by storm whose journey provided
incredible ability of the mind body and
spirit this is a story of mermaid
Melissa born in st. Augustine Florida
Melissa Durham stood on her life as any
other child but her Elias saw her
spending more time near the water than
any other kid of her age she would spend
hours in the pool at the beach or
visiting local waterpark whenever she
could people started calling her a fish
then a dolphin and then a male as she
grew older Melissa started to take
lessons in modeling for children while
the time she was 15 years of age she
knew what she wanted to be she had
visited Universal Studios animal actors
show at a local theme park and was
fascinated by animal trainers who host
the show she wanted to be just like that
an animal trainer when she approached
Universal they agreed to hire her as a
weekend show attendant
for three years Melissa worked their
thirst as a shower attendant then as a
cage cleaner and then in the show Rose
finally her hard work had paid off
Universal Studios hired her as an animal
trainer Melissa had achieved her first
dream job training acting and modeling
after the fresh new experience of her
working near universal studios she
decided to head for California for her
new goal to try her luck in Tinseltown
sounds a lot like Tortuga to me Melissa
experienced the highs and lows of living
in Santa Monica California she learned
the harshest truth of the industry and
its peers at one stage she proved to
herself that she could take on a
corporate role performing as a product
manager for a large corporate company
but still she knew that something was
missing from her life
the water was calling to her her
opportunity came in 2005 when she joined
a large public aquatic entertainment
park in Orlando her first role was as a
pearl diver and in aquatic entertainer
who would stay submerged in the water
with no breathing apparatus as they
professional free diver she would hold
her breath while flipping underwater
eight times in a row or lay at the
bottom of a lagoon exhaling 20 bubble
rings on one single breath for minutes
at a time underwater she could still be
seen smiling and waving at onlooking
guests never showing the strain eight or
more hours a day Melissa could be seen
performing underwater building up a very
strong endurance being known for her
lungs of Steel while performing in the
windows that same year Melissa decided
to do something that would catapult her
into an unprecedented online success she
decided to hold her breath underwater
for as long as she could she later said
that she decided to do it as a
dedication tribute to her friend that
had recently passed away even with years
of experience practice and training
behind what she was good at Melissa now
says it was no easy thing to do and
discourages others from trying this
without proper training practice and
supervision in the same year Melissa
decided to go for her professional scuba
certification
she was now spending more time
underwater without any gear but decided
to take the next step anyway she wanted
to reach further down and explore the
creatures of the sea 2005 was also the
year Melissa started posting her videos
on YouTube
since then melissa has kept a steady
presence in the cyber world reaching out
to millions of viewers today her aquatic
entertainment business has a website
that spreads her message and latest
projects in globe her YouTube channel
videos have been watched over a million
times by 2007 she thought she had done
everything she could have done and
wanted to move on she was about to leave
Florida once again for another job in
Las Vegas when her life decided to take
another turn this time she was to become
a Marine Mammal trainer the turn
involved working with killer whales and
dolphins and it did not turn out to be
an easy transition Melissa had to work
every inch of the way
she wanted to become what she had always
wanted to be deep down her heart
a mermaid luckily the progression to
become the modern-day creature of a
mermaid was not as difficult as the
previous roles although there was no
less planning she put into it the
popularity of her ever increasing online
video library soared as well she
perfected her motions and decided to
swim upstream from Florida to South
Carolina 2011 saw Melissa spending his
summer at Ripley's Believe It or Not
aquarium in Myrtle Beach as a lead
professional mermaid she entertained
visitors seven days a week four shows a
day all summer long with no break
melissa has her on aquatic entertainment
company called mermaid Melissa LLC it's
featuring her team of both mermaids
Merman and pirates savvy she is now a
professional mermaid for hire willing to
perform anywhere in the world this is a
life that involves danger something I
really like and is prone to many sinus
issues ear infections are not uncommon
in her line of work sometimes her very
life is on the line despite the danger
and fame recognition is now following
her she has also been interviewed on
radio shows TV interviews magazines
newspaper articles live TV broadcast
special websites and other mermaid viral
videos
being a creature of the deep melissa
believes she has a duty to help protect
the very environment that helps her feel
at home not surprisingly her shows and
video clips all spread the same message
let's help the oceans before all
creatures become mythical it's a message
she holds close to her heart
and conveys to everyone the journey has
been a long one with countless hours of
practice training and sheer hard work
Melissa does not believe it as yet
reaches climax and the possibilities in
front of her are endless she wants to
dive deeper explore further and
challenge herself beyond what she knows
her limits to be today but above all she
always remembers else who inspired her
most and those who seem to be her
greatest admirers such as me Captain
Jack Sparrow
you
