[Music]
a standoff between a man who was wanted
by the FBI and a large number of federal
agents surrounding a cabin where a
fugitive named Randy Weaver is holed up
with his family in 1992 a bloody
standoff between lawmen and an armed
white separatist named Randy Weaver left
his wife 14-year-old son and a federal
agent Dead The 11-day Siege at a place
called Ruby Ridge Idaho it happened
before Waco and for many it's an even
bigger rallying cry I want the truth
you've got the OK Corral you've got
certain moments in the history of
American law enforcement where society
says wait a minute we got to take a look
at this in a different way Ruby Ridge
began a paradigm shift inadequate
performance Ruby Ridge shook the highest
ranks of the FBI and it remains a
watchword wherever law enforcement
stands off against barricaded suspects
today this story is used as what not to
do that gives me hope maybe we won't
make the same mistakes maybe we won't
rush into things when it's a matter of
life or
[Music]
death I thought they were chasing down a
moose or a bear or something honestly I
had no clue that there were people with
guns in the woods that day 16-year-old
Sarah Weaver was in her family's remote
Idaho cabin when their dog ran into the
woods barking her father Randy Weaver a
family friend and her 14-year-old
Brother Sam followed with their rifles
the next thing she heard was an
explosion of gunfire everything in me
wanted to run down the hill and try and
you know protect my brother cuz I knew
he was down there and I'd always been
his big sister I'd always been his
protector so there was a part of me that
just wanted to take off down the
driveway and make sure he was okay torn
she stayed with her mother and younger
sisters until the friend Kevin Harris
returned he said that Sam was gone
and I think my whole world fell apart at
that
moment none of us at that time were
thinking that anything worse could
happen but unb own to Sarah US Marshals
had been staking out her parents who
were vehemently anti-government for
months her father had fled charges of
selling two illegal shotguns and her
mother had indicated they wouldn't
surrender without a fight when the dog
uncovered the Marshall's location an
agent shot it and a gunfight ensued that
killed 14-year-old Sam Weaver and a
deputy US Marshall named William Degan I
can't speak for everybody on my team but
I assumed I was walking into into a
violent situation there was likely to be
a Shootout scores of federal agents
quickly descended the next morning as
Sharpshooters like Chris wicam took
position around the cabin they were
under an unusual order if any adult male
is observed with a weapon deadly force
can and should be employed the entire
world for someone in my position at that
time is this big around you don't see
the larger circumstances you don't see
the larger picture you just see the
world world through a
scope dad was wanting to go see Sam one
more time and just I guess do some more
grieving say goodbye I don't know and so
I took off after him and he made it
around the shed ahead of me the people
that I saw with assault rifles were
moving from tree to building to wood
pile through fog uh I didn't have the
shot my finger was on a trigger I was
trying to take the shot I didn't have it
I just heard a giant boom I I said dad
what happened and he said you know I've
been shot and you know at this point my
mom had stepped out of the door and she
was screaming what happened what
happened and get in the house get in the
house and we all get piled up in front
of the door
and I hear what goes I hear what is like
a gunshot going off in my ear
and a mom just drops to my
side I knew I knew what had happened to
her immediately
I thought it was the end for all of us
at that
point Sarah's mother Vicki took a fatal
shot to the head as she held the
family's 10-month-old baby in her arms
but outside the cabin no one was aware
Vicki was dead and agents kept trying to
negotiate with her when they got on the
bullhorn and started asking
for Mom to come out
and have pancakes for breakfast with her
kids
wouldn't you want to do that with your
children sort of
thing it added it's a cliche to say it
added insult to injury but it did as
news of the standoff spread journalists
converged on the scene two people have
already died neither side seems ready to
back down the FBI says they will not
leave until Weaver and his friend Kevin
Harris who lives with him are in custody
everyone here in Naples agrees that
Weaver is a white supremacist who just
wants to be left alone for police he is
a fugitive on a federal arms charge
heavily armed and dangerous and a small
army of right-wing sympathizers also
gathered on the road below the cabin to
protest Baby K baby killer you're a
traitor to your rank in your
country the Weavers held out for a total
of 11 days after Vicki was shot they
believed they'd be killed if they
stepped outside the standoff ended only
after Bo gites a right-wing presidential
candidate sympathetic to the Weaver's
cause negotiated a surrender our camera
caught a glimpse of the family walking
into the staging area the girl one of
the girls is wearing a red jacket at the
bottom of your screen when I got to the
meadow it was a scene out of a movie it
was inconceivable to me to think that
they would need so much and so many
people and and tanks and
helicopters all this for one family the
story was dramatized in a TV movie and
folk songs and it found a ready-made
audience the Ruby Ridge standoff became
a kind of founding myth of the radical
right it not only made the government
look bad it was bad people whatever
views they have whatever illegal
activities they have should not be shot
down
by government snipers when they are not
actively threatening the life of
somebody later investigations revealed
that law enforcement had made a series
of Errors authorities on the ground
communicated poorly with agents arriving
from afar which exaggerated the threat
Weaver posed and agents on the scene
failed to negotiate or set up a clear
line of communication with the family
until it was too late in the end jurors
decided Randy Weaver's most serious
crime was failing to appear in court and
then came accusations that the FBI had
attempted to cover up its mistakes the
FBI is feeling the heat during Weaver's
1993 trial another FBI standoff ended in
tragedy and accusations of misconduct 76
members of the branch deidan religious
sect died in a federal raid on their
compound in Waco Texas there are Eerie
parallels with Waco in both cases
government miscalculation in the arrest
of a fanatic ended in gunfire and death
the radical right uh views itself as
being in a a battle to the death with
the federal government Ruby Ridge for
them was the opening shot of that war
critics complained there was no real
investigation and no real punishment
after the 1992 incident it's now clear
their voices have been heard amid
intense Federal scrutiny of the Ruby
Ridge Scandal the FBI's number two man
was demoted three other agents were
suspended and one was sent to jail and
the Weaver family won a $3.1 million
settlement from the federal government
law enforcement typically changes not
because someone has a brilliant idea we
change because we're sued or there's
public opinion that speaks against us
and we realized we had to change we had
to do this better since the early 1990s
the FBI says it's overhauled how it
responds to armed standoffs and train
hundreds of police departments across
the country the Federal deadly force
policy can't be modified on the fly as
it was at Ruby Ridge basically for us a
bone yeah you got to help me help you
yeah and agent's now trained to set up
better communication on the scene
organizationally we've changed right so
the negotiators are fully embedded
within our tactical section all right so
shield shield cover if you can slow
things down and negotiate and peacefully
communicate with the subjects and try to
figure out what's motivating them then
you should take full advantage can you
hear me in the bus this is Katie with
the FBI I want to talk to you about how
we're going to get the phone to you you
get involved in a shootout situation in
America today it's going to be litigated
for years we look at things differently
now we look and
say time is not the issue it once
was take the case of John Joe gray in
East Texas 7 years after Ruby Ridge
greay was stopped for a traffic
violation and got into a fight with a
state trooper and bit him he then then
retreated to his farm with his weapons
and refused to come out John Joe gray
how you doing a 51-year-old
self-proclaimed Freedom Fighter what
will happen if they try to raid this
place you come out after us bring x-3
body bags but local law enforcement made
a unique decision they decided not to
raid his compound to bring him to court
you look at things like wo you look at
things like Ruby bridge and I'm not sure
that it is worth going out there and Tak
change Henderson County Sheriff Ray nut
is the fourth Sheriff Who's decided not
to storm Gray's compound since the
standoff began and that's given this
case a special status often it's called
the longest running standoff in American
history he's been under self-imposed
house arrest for 14
years the longest term in prison I could
have given him was 10 I probably
wouldn't have given him 10 that doesn't
satisfy Gray's former son-in-law who
watched his ex-wife take their two
children into the compound and then
disappear gray refused to talk on camera
but claimed he'll stay put indefinitely
living off the land and occasional help
from a few supporters if the police do
come he told us I ain't going down
without a fight so far the battle has
remained oddly
one-sided this is more of I don't know a
lounge off because everybody's just kind
of chilled into what it is this isn't
going to end until John Joe gray passes
on it's not a perfect outcome to have
somebody thumbing their nose at a lawful
court order but in the respect that
nobody was killed it's an acceptable
outcome for me in the two decades since
Ruby Ridge Sarah Weaver bought a small
acreage in Montana with a portion of the
settlement money distanced herself from
her father's beliefs and made peace with
the past it's not easy being a Christian
forgiveness is an
ongoing choice and an ongoing
process I'm
forgiving the people that showed up with
tanks and guns and armored personnel
carriers and I'm forgiving the ones that
pulled the trigger I'm forgiving the
ones that sent the
orders forgiveness is not saying what
happened is okay because I believe if we
forget those
mistakes they they can be
[Music]
repeated
[Music]
a
