wealth power and influence JP Morgan had
it all he owned the first billion dollar
company he dominated the country's most
profitable Industries and on multiple
occasions the economy of the United
States quite literally depended on the
actions of JP Morgan with a simple word
or the stroke of a pen he could save a
company from claps or Doom it to
bankruptcy hated by some admired by
others there will never be another man
quite like JP Morgan this is his story
uh
John Pierpont Morgan was born in
Connecticut in 1837 into privileged
circumstances John's father Junior
Spencer Morgan was already a wealthy
banker and he ensured that Jon had the
best education that money could buy
since he wanted John to follow in his
footsteps as a financier however despite
being born into wealth Jon's childhood
was Bleak he was a sickly child he
regularly suffered from brutal coughing
vets migraines seizures and various
diseases such as scarlet fever his
medical conditions meant he often
couldn't play outside with the other
kids instead you'd find him inside
studying or reading financial statements
in fact at one point John became
incapacitated by rheumatic fever and his
father's solution was to send Jon to
live by himself in the Azure islands in
the middle of the Atlantic Ocean his dad
believed the climate and salty air would
help Jon recover from his condition so
Jon stayed on that island for nearly a
year without any family and when he was
finally well enough he continued his
education by 1857 John had studied in
Boston Switzerland and Germany and was
now 19 years old and ready to enter the
workforce at this point John's father
was a junior partner at a london-based
merchant banking firm called George
Peabody and Co and thanks to his father
John was able to get a job on Wall
Street in the banking firm which looked
after Peabody's interest in America part
of John's job involved writing reports
to his father's firm detailing the
financial and political goings-on In
America which of course at the time was
still an Emerging Market however from an
early age John's father feared that his
son was too rash and hot-tempered to
ever become a successful financier and
that he needed to learn restraint and
responsibility one example of this was
in 1859 while on a trip to New Orleans
John made a seemingly Reckless gamble by
using company money to purchase an
entire shipment of Brazilian coffee that
arrived in Port without a buyer even
though John sold it and made a tidy
profit the senior members of the banking
house including John John Farber
couldn't stand this kind of risk-taking
so in 1861 age 24 John left the Safety
and Security of an established firm in
order to strike it out on his own
founding his own company which continued
to act as an agent for his father's Bank
back in England it was also that year
that John married his first love a frail
young woman named Amelia Sturgis and for
a brief period John was the happiest
he'd ever been however Amelia soon came
down with a persistent cough that was
later diagnosed as tuberculosis so right
after their wedding John took her on an
extended honeymoon in the Mediterranean
hoping that the new climate might
restore her strength just like Jon's
father had tried for him when he was
younger but it was no use Jon's wife
died just four months after their
wedding leaving John a widower at 24.
understandably he was an inconsolable
mess and it's believed he never truly
recovered from this tragic loss of his
wife at such a young age immediately
after losing her John threw himself deep
into his work more than ever however
whilst John was going through his own
crisis so was the United States around
this time the American Civil War had
broken out and the 1863 conscription act
should have meant Jon went off to fight
but he didn't instead John paid 300 to
be removed from enlisting and have a
substitute stand in his place that's not
to say John London get involved in the
war though in fact on the contrary he
profited from it hugely one of the most
notable examples was when he financed
the purchase of 5 000 Surplus Hall
carbine rifles a 3.50 each from the
government that were considered too old
to use but then the Consortium who
bought them made some minor adjustments
and almost immediately sought the same
rifles back to the government for 22
each it was an over 600 increase in
price and thus whilst it was a very
lucrative deal for Jon to be involved in
this war profiteering was certainly not
popular with the public or the
government but that was the least of his
worries Jon would soon be facing some
much bigger controversies
in 1871 John saw the golden opportunity
to team up with one of the leading
financiers in the country a banker named
Anthony Drexel together they founded the
Drexel Morgan and co-private Merchant
banking house which was later renamed to
Simply JP Morgan and Co and this would
be the firm that John would manage for
the rest of his life serving as the
precursor to the modern banking Titan we
know today as JPMorgan Chase now early
in John's career he'd mostly just been a
facilitator of deals like connecting
wealthy investors and Visionaries
together in exchange for occur the
profits but as John amassed a bigger
personal fortune and reputation he was
able to finance many of these projects
on his own and John had already
identified his first major investment
the American railroad system now at the
time most of the other big industries
were dominated by one single magnate
like Carnegie dominated in steel and
Rockefeller dominated an oil but the
railroads weren't monopolized actually
it was the opposite there were so many
competing companies that offered very
similar routes that they often slashed
their prices to try and win customers
but whereas most looked at the railroad
business and saw a fierce competition
John saw opportunity he felt the answer
was consolidation merging railroads
together rather than competing that's
because Jon knew that the bigger a
business got the more it could benefit
from economies of scale so John skull
was always to turn multiple small
companies into one unified conglomerate
suddenly rather than competing against
each other and driving down prices they
could set whatever prices they wanted as
they owned all the nearby railroads so
John invested heavily in multiple
railroads which he began consolidating
he'd take over under Finance railroad
companies streamline their management
and operational efficiency and merge the
small companies together into one
dominant player that could crush any
remaining competitors which of course
he'd then be able to take over as well
Jon used this tactic to such great
effect that it was even named after him
becoming known as morganization but the
other thing Jon did differently to other
businessmen and investors of the time
was that he played a very proactive role
in the corporate management of these
companies John wasn't content with
simply buying shares then sitting back
and raking in the profits he was a man
who craved control Jon needed to be the
one and calling the shots so he
regularly used his influential position
on the boards of directors to direct the
company as he saw fat he often
reshuffled the leaderships of all these
different Railway companies to his
liking and assembled them into
monopolies with himself at the head of
the table of course when railroad came
to him for help he'd refuse unless he
was given full control this not only
gave Jon the power he wanted but also
created a more stable industry which in
turn attracted even more Investments
money from Europe flowed into U.S
Railway companies now that it looked
more Consolidated and stable thanks to
Jon and this of course made John even
wealthier Jon kept acquiring more Rail
lines and constantly wanted to outdo his
previous achievements and be more
ambitious for example he purchased 250
000 shares of stock from William
Vanderbilt and one of the most prominent
Railways in the country the New York
Central Railroad he then took things
even further the following year when he
executed the largest transaction in
railroad bonds ever made in the United
States underwriting the sale of 40
million dollars in bonds to finance the
completion of the Northern Pacific
railroad before long john owned
one-third of all roads in America at a
time where sixty percent of America's
stock market capitalization consisted of
railroad companies in other words John
was no longer just a wealthy financier
he was literally shaping Railroad
conglomerates and being heavily involved
in reorganizations and mergers all of
which grew his power and wealth further
and his growing reputation as a
formidable Titan of industry was matched
by his intimidating appearance Jon had a
skin condition called rosacea that
inflamed and ruptured the blood vessels
of his nose making it very red and
disfigured whilst he also had
rhino-fimer which made his nose much
larger and covered in pimples John was
actually very self-conscious about his
appearance and got angry at being
photographed according to his grandson
whenever John had a portrait done he
always ordered them to redo his nose to
make it look more normal which is why
it's not as noticeable in pictures of
him but his startling facial features
combined with his towering height and
his aggressive way of speaking all meant
that Jon was an intimidating presence to
be around however in 1901 it seemed Jon
had finally met someone who would stand
up to him president Theodore Roosevelt
you see John had just Consolidated his
Northern Pacific railroad together with
two other Railways in the region and
created a massive new holding company
called the Northern Securities
Corporation and he'd been able to get
away with these kind of monopolistic
practices due to his close relationship
with the current President William
McKinley but then McKinley was
assassinated and suddenly Theodore
Roosevelt became president who took a
very different view on what John was
doing Roosevelt ordered the justice
department to file a suit against the
company for violating the Sherman
Antitrust Act of 1890 whilst John fought
this in court the company was ultimately
sped up and this was just the beginning
of a very tense relationship between the
two men when John Hood Roosevelt was
going to Africa one year John said good
I hope the first lion meets him does his
duty for John though this was merely a
small setback he was already planning
something much crazier
foreign
Carnegie steel was at its peak it
dominated the steel industry and was one
of the most valuable companies in the
country but despite it netting 40
million dollars a year Carnegie was
ready to retire and wanted to sell his
company but who could buy it that's
where John came in he basically told
Carnegie to name his price and he did
480 million dollars which would be more
than any other business deal in history
and yet John agreed on the spot and
later confessed he would have paid 100
million more John made the landmark
purchase in 1901 but this was just the
beginning of his ambitious plan he
merged Carnegie steel with the federal
Steel company and a few other businesses
to form U.S steel the world's first
billion dollar corporation which had a
market cap of 1.4 billion dollars just
to put that in perspective all the
manufacturing in the country was
capitalized at a combined 9 billion this
deal gave Jon control over roughly
two-thirds of the American steel
production so basically two of the
largest Industries at the time were
steel and railroads and Jon had
seemingly conquered both and he didn't
stop there John helped finance Thomas
Edison's early experiments with
electricity he then played an important
role in merging Edison Electric with its
competitors in order to create General
Electric and John was also influential
in creating what would later become a t
Jon's talents for combining companies
together and turning them into
Unstoppable Giants was unmatched but
unfortunately a crisis was about to
begin
in 1893 the United States was facing a
depression the likes of which he had
never seen before after several decades
of continued growth and unchecked
Investments the bubble burst and the
American economy was plunged into chaos
stocks plummeted losing almost half
their value thousands of business closed
their doors forever hundreds of banks
went bankrupt and unemployment rates
skyrocketed throughout the country the
crisis scared off Foreign investors who
cashed in their American Bonds in
exchange for gold slowly but surely
depleting the U.S reserves since at the
time the dollar was still tied to the
gold standard meaning anyone could
convert their paper money into physical
gold and thus had more confidence their
paper money was actually worth something
as a result the American government
always kept at least 100 million dollars
worth of gold bullion on hand to back
the dollar but by 1895 most of that gold
was gone and the dollar value was in a
sharp decline at its lowest the
government had no more than nine million
dollars worth of gold reserves which
meant that it was in danger of
defaulting on its loans at any moment
and of course this run on gold just
spread more Panic having a domino effect
where more investors pulled their money
out of the US and depleted the reserves
even further the US didn't have a
central bank at the time to rescue them
and the situation was extremely dire
President Cleveland understood this was
a Crossroads moment for America that
would forever alter its course the
traditional strategy of Simply selling
more bonds to the American people
wouldn't work fast enough John knew this
was the time for drastic and immediate
action so he traveled to Washington to
meet the president lay out his game plan
in order to bring America back from the
brink of an economic disaster John's
audacious scheme was to form a private
Syndicate consisting of the most
prominent Bankers in the country who
would work together with foreign
investors to shore up America's gold
reserves his Syndicate offered to
purchase 65 million dollars worth of
30-year gold bonds using 3.5 million
ounces of gold thanks to an old Civil
War statute President Cleveland could
agree to the deal right then and there
without having to wait for approval from
Congress once Cleveland signed the
agreement John wired his men in New York
and told them to act and in only 22
minutes they brought out all the gold
bonds Jon's decisive actions had an
immediate a calming effect on the
volatile Financial market and restored
faith in the economy John had almost
single-handedly saved them from Total
claps and of course being the shrewd
businessman that he was he had also made
a large profit from the Enterprise by
securing generous rates on the gold
bonds that he purchased unless whilst
John had saved the day and helped bail
out the government it also raised
concerns it Illustrated the vast
influence and power of one single Banker
on the entire U.S economy and some asked
whether his motivations were really
patriotic or simply opportunistic to
line his own Pockets at the next
election the relationship between big
Banks and the government was a hot topic
for the Democrats but John and his
Banker friends donated heavily to the
Republican nominee who won the election
instead so for now Jon kept his close
ties to the government but this was not
the only time that Jon was instrumental
in stabilizing the American economy in
1907 the country was facing another
deepening financial crisis which led to
several Banks being on the verge of
bankruptcy leading to hordes of people
queuing up around the block to withdraw
their money from their bank accounts the
government reportedly had to tell bank
tellers to deliberately count the money
slower to try and reduce the rate cash
was being withdrawn because if everyone
pulled their money out at the same time
it could be catastrophic by this point
Roosevelt was the president and as we
already know he certainly did not see
eye to eye with John on most things but
the crisis of 1907 was so dire that they
both agreed it would be in America's
best interest if the government and big
business worked together to save the
country from falling into a depression
so Roosevelt called on JP Morgan to
salvage the situation once again Jon's
strategy was to spend a lot of money
where it was needed most he summoned
dozens of the leading financiers and
leaders of the nation's biggest banks
and trusts to join him in his private
library on Madison Avenue and decide on
the best course of action John's planet
was essentially for them to invest in
their smaller competitors Jon concluded
that although some banks would
inevitably fail others could still be
saved so he and his associates deposited
giant sums of money in a number of banks
so that they would be able to pay their
depositors and avoid declaring
bankruptcy after revealing his plan John
then locked the door while the bankers
negotiate shaded among themselves
literally locking them in until they
agreed on a resolution by the morning
everyone had agreed with Jon's plan and
with Roosevelt's approval the U.S
treasury also contributed 25 million
showing the level of trust and respect
the president had for Jon's business
sense what's remarkable is that John was
70 years old at this point and
negotiated all of this whilst having a
terrible cold meaning he was constantly
coughing and sneezing while saving the
US economy but his plan ultimately
worked lots of capital was injected back
into the economy public confidence was
restored in America's banking system and
yet another economic disaster was
averted thanks to John's wheelings and
dealings but whilst he was once again
briefly labeled as a hero almost
immediately people began to realize just
how dependent they had become on one
single man something needed to change
now so far we've heard how JP Morgan
revolutionized the railroads which
changed the way people transported Goods
but what about right now with so many
different shipping services available
these days how do you know where to get
the best deal that's where our video
sponsorship station comes in they make
it easy to compare prices and delivery
times from different carriers and even
help you get huge discounts like up to
84 of USPS and UPS rates normally it's
only the big companies that can benefit
from economies of scale like this but
thanks to ship station e-commerce
businesses of any size can get the best
shipping deals too plus shipstation
saves you so much time it effortlessly
integrates everywhere you sell online
including Amazon
Etsy eBay Shopify and more that way you
can manage every order from one simple
dashboard as well as automate routine
shipping tasks and print shipping labels
and as if that wasn't enough if you use
my link below you'll get two months
completely free so keep growing your
business all year long with ship station
go to shipstation.com magnates today and
sign up for your free 60-day trial
that's shipstation.com magnates
John was facing increased scrutiny the
age of the robber baron who could
conduct his business unchecked and
unimpeded was slowly coming to an end as
the American public was growing
increasingly wary of a handful of
businessmen wielding so much power and
influence John was summoned to testify
before the pujo committee that wanted to
investigate the true reach of wall
Street's money trust and its role in the
American economy John was front and
center during the pujo committee
hearings and he became the face of Wall
Street power despite his financial
success Jon's mental state was
deteriorating he had multiple nervous
breakdowns and he struggled to deal with
the Public's negative portrayal of him
in the media ironically he was actually
due to board the Titanic for its maiden
voyage but due to health issues pulled
out at the last moment meanwhile the
pujo committee paved the way for the
establishment of the Federal Reserve
since it was clear they couldn't just
rely on a handful of ultra rich and
Powerful individuals to step in and fix
the economy but Jon would never see the
repercussions of this investigation
because month later on March 31st 1913
the 75 year old financier died while on
vacation in Rome after his death Jon's
son took over the business and continued
its expansion in fact even in present
day there are still concerns the bank is
too powerful it's undergone countless
Acquisitions and merges over the year
something John himself would have been
proud of like merges with bank one best
earns and most notably of all in the
year 2000 the murder with Chase Bank to
create JP Morgan Chase with an estimated
three trillion dollars in assets after
200 years of consolidation in the
banking industry JPMorgan Chase is the
biggest bank in the world by market
capitalization and so whilst opinion
will be divided on John Pierpont Morgan
there's no doubt his legacy lives on but
personally when it comes to the era of
these industrialists my favorite story
is Cornelius Vanderbilt honestly there
was nobody quite like him and so if you
don't know his story yet you've got to
check this video out right here to see
his brutal rise to the top I'll see you
there in a second cheers
