we've all watched those war movies where
we see soldiers create bonds with their
comrades by planning and achieving
objectives using heroic moves and
courageous sacrifices the team worked
they exhibit to achieve those
spectacular objectives leaves us in all
and wishing we could be those guys in
real life many of us want to experience
the same thrills and adventures without
the dangers of being hurt we found a
group of people that achieve and capture
this we aim to find out how we traveled
to an airsoft field in Vacaville where
we saw milsim in action no slow
operations are definitely a step above
regular airsoft games it's more
high-stress a lot of teamwork a lot of
things you see in the movies actually do
happen there have been events that you
go to where they have pyrotechnics going
off and it's just a whole different
environment compared to a regular
airsoft game building pull the clock
building pull the clock
when you're out there a lot of the guys
who do milsim have some kind of military
experience or even law enforcement
experience and they give you kind of
your insight they're usually the guys
who are in charge of the squad's and the
platoons that are out there doing a
milsim operation they teach you stuff
like really how to communicate with each
other how to stay focused stay on target
and just follow orders and how to really
stay in the game as long as you can
some people want to get a taste of what
it feels like I have a military
background I you know I've been deployed
twice there's nothing like it because
there's just not that level of danger
but people you know people really just
are drawn to like first-person shooter
games and some of them just want to take
it to the next level in a controlled
environment it became noticeable to us
that teamwork was a big part of the
milsim experience why is teamwork
important really if you do not have any
trust in your teammates and teamwork
will never be a factor of your squad
that you're in if you don't have any
teamwork going on you're going to fall
behind you're not going to get the
objective done you're going to get
pinned down all the time by the opposing
force and you're really just not going
to have a good time
roughly 12 down here there's guys but
there's a far way to do much yeah like
90% teamwork and Trust is the biggest
part of the game if you got some guy
who's around there being a lone wolf
he's going to go down it's really a big
part of teamwork I think the one thing
people should really invest in aside
from safety gear and you know an
operational gun is walkie-talkies a form
of communication teamwork address is
probably the best thing you can have for
Milson operations probably what wins it
if you're out there for the competitive
nature there's one person that needs to
leave one person that can make split
decisions if something comes up he makes
the right decision right away and he
doesn't take any hesitation first I talk
to people who have done milsim events
before so then you kind of get a feel of
what's going to go on understand that
there is a chain of command and also
when you're looking into what you'll
need make sure that you're not bringing
anything you won't need what are some of
the benefits of milsim most people who
take this serious sometimes feel that
you know like one person will look look
at them and think they're taking it too
serious but they take it serious because
they treat it as if it is a dangerous
situation and you know if a dangerous
situation should ever arise that's the
person I'd want backing me up well I
probably tell them like hey it's gonna
hurt a lot you're gonna be working your
muscles you be sore it's a good workout
like you have you have fun while you're
doing it and you're good workout you're
humping around like 20 pounds of gear
plus you're done great exercise it's
really just you know you're running
you're climbing you're getting dirty and
you know just the excitement alone it
has your adrenaline running which you
know it's just all-around healthy after
a full day of running around in the
field experiencing some of the
action-filled thrilling moments we found
out that military simulation definitely
delivered on its promise of giving us
some perspective of the military based
action the people we got to know and
Milson go all out
the air anyway yeah
