[Music]
it's a scandal that has rocked China
voice Eloi one of the Communist Party's
rising political stars is forced from
power Politburo members have been
dismissed before but never in such a
dramatic way Bo's wife is detained as a
suspect in the murder of a British
businessman
we have allegations of corruption
involving potentially hundreds of
millions of dollars it is the biggest
news in China in decades it's like a
Hollywood movie
the downfall of Boyle family has plunged
China into its biggest political crisis
since Tiananmen Square it has disrupted
the Communist Party's carefully-crafted
succession plans created tension with
the UK and us and changed the debate
about the future of the world's second
largest economy Beaujolais is without
doubt the most colorful and charismatic
figure in Chinese politics bullsh t lie
isn't the only top Communist Party
official to fall in recent years but he
is by far the most popular the son of
revolutionary hero boy oh boy he is part
of a group known in China as the
princelings children of senior party
officials who often use their political
connections to advance their careers but
not the only members of the country's
ruling class the princelings are an
influential force in Chinese politics
thanks to years spent rubbing shoulders
with powerful figures but ball wasn't
just politically connected he also knew
how to communicate with people
particularly those who felt left behind
or taken advantage of in the country's
dizzying rush to accumulate wealth more
than any other politician he PE appealed
directly to the masses he had a keen
insight into the anger and resentment of
ordinary people in this country well his
first big job in government came when
the party appointed him mayor of the
polluted industrial city of Dalian in
China's northeast in a pattern he would
later repeat for imposed his will on the
city transforming it into a gleaming
metropolis by courting investment and
spending heavily on public works D felt
beautiful squares he had all the main
buildings in the in the town centre
redone success in Dalian propelled bore
to a job as governor of Liaoning
province and from there to Beijing where
he was named Commerce Minister he seemed
well on his way to a coveted position in
the Politburo Standing Committee the
country's highest decision-making body
but then his career hit a wall the hard
driving style that had served him so
well in the northeast was not
appreciated in the capital and he was
diverted to the southwestern city of
Chongqing
very deep in the countries
less-developed interior Theatron are on
a lot of toes particularly the commerce
ministry both within that ministry and
other people are involved in foreign
trade didn't like the way he worked he
was deemed not to show sufficient
respect to other leaders and their and
their interests he didn't seem to care
he was very unpopular among his peers in
Beijing that's one of the reasons why he
was packed off to - to Chongqing he was
supposed to go to Chongqing and do a
good job be quiet
but his head down work hard for the
development of the West in fact he went
there and he made a big noise
[Music]
Chongqing is a mountainous mega city of
30 million people located on the eastern
edge of Sichuan province despite its
size for years it was seen as a
backwater too far from Beijing and the
city's wealthy coasts to merit much
attention boy arrived in 2007 and just
as in Dalian he set out to remake the
city combining populist campaigns with
massive investment in public works
projects he transformed Chongqing into a
political and economic powerhouse last
year Chongqing GDP grew sixteen point
four percent which made it the fastest
growing region in the entire China what
really drove the growth is very heavy
state government spending on projects
like roads railways big infrastructure
projects and also big spending on
low-cost
social housing projects before long
people in China began talking about a
Chongqing model a blueprint for
development the next heavy state
economic intervention with a revival of
Mao era Communist values among boys
biggest moves a resurrection of the
tradition of so-called red songs he was
looking for a way to try and sort of
regenerates mass public support for the
party and and he decided that this was
this was the way to do it so what he was
doing was organizing these mass
renditions and stadiums and trying to
get every community every state-owned
enterprise was encouraged to organize
these things on various different levels
even even sent troops of red singers up
to Beijing into other cities to do these
performances so he sort of repackaged
the whole thing and made it his own and
then sort of sold it to the entire
nation as his idea
people who painted the city red there
were red songs that were red banners
people said red was the color of
revolution they also said red was the
color of blood there was more than
little violence in Bauchi lies Chongqing
much of that violence was the result of
a crackdown on organized crime under the
auspices of the crackdown hundreds of
gang members policemen government
officials and businessman were arrested
and in some cases executed he made a
really big deal of it he had a lot of
national media attention and arrested a
lot of prominent people and even
including a cm very senior police
official who we subsequently put to
death it had resonance across the
country where people are afraid about
the the the resurgence of gangs black
societies he took them on but he took
them on in such a way that he trampled
over the rule of law there were
allegations of corruption extrajudicial
judicial detentions and so on and so
forth
laws policies made him something of a
hero to intellectuals and officials who
believe the state should take a bigger
role in managing the economy in society
but others watched his rise in Chongqing
with a sense of trepidation what he had
been doing in Trentino remind many
people of the Cultural Revolution people
don't want to go back to those sad days
top figures in the Communist Party were
also put off by his ambition as a
Leninist party as a discipline party
your policy comes from above you
implement policy you don't sell for
grand eyes you don't come across as
being naked lis ambitious if you want to
be ambitious if you want to climb you do
it all behind closed doors he didn't he
did it out there on the stage in full
view of the public and full view of
Beijing deliberately so nearly as big a
threat to the party's legitimacy was the
lavish lifestyle of Bohr's son Bohr guau
guau which true unwanted attention to
the comforts enjoyed by party leaders
like many children of the Chinese elite
bagua attended schools overseas
including Oxford and Harvard but what's
unusual about pork requires that he kept
a very high profile particular when he
was at Oxford he was attending and
organizing a lot of part
there were photographs of him that
appeared on the internet sometimes in
the tuxedo one occasion bare-chested
and that really stirred quite a bit of
controversy and in China because they
just you know focused attention on the
fact that he was studying overseas at
this very prestigious university and
that raised the question well you know
how could he love this how did he get in
but it also sort of broker and under an
unwritten rule amongst leaders that it's
okay to send your kids overseas to study
but you have to maintain a very low
profile writing to the Harvard Crimson
bagua said his education was funded by
scholarships earned independently and by
his mother's savings from her work as a
lawyer and writer despite it all boys
opponents of Beijing were seemingly
powerless to control him
that is until February 6th when
Chongqing Zechs Chief of Police Wang Li
Jordan once a top four ally ran to the
US consulate in nearby Chengdu with
stories of intrigue and murder and
sought protection there the event
triggered what would become China's
biggest political crisis in a generation
[Music]
one Legion had a reputation as being one
of the toughest policemen in China and
in Chongqing he'd been the guy who
really oversaw fossilised campaign
against organized crime and he earned
ass of nationwide reputation he was a
martial arts expert and so there's a lot
of media attention focused on him and
we've since learned that he obviously
fell out with boss July and that's why
he decided to seek refuge in the US
consulate
ballin Wang fell out over a central
government investigation into
allegations of abuse of power stemming
from the Chongqing organized crime
crackdown after both fired long as
police chief in early February
Wang began to fear that he would be made
to take the fall for boy and hastily
arranged a meeting of the US consulate
once he was safely inside long requested
asylum but the u.s. turned him down
facing capture by forces loyal to poor
Wang reached out to authorities in
Beijing instead Obama administration
officials briefed on the matter say that
there was little reason to shelter Wang
on Human Rights grounds and that he was
never a serious candidate for asylum
US officials maintain that in turning
over to central authorities they were
guarding his safety with his top
lieutenant gone oil was suddenly
vulnerable many began to openly
speculate about his political future at
the annual meeting of China's Parliament
in March bull remained defiant accusing
his critics of pouring filth on him and
his family but it was too late days
later in a separate press conference
premier Wen Jiabao ordered chome team's
leaders to reflect on their mistakes
ball was stripped of his position as
communist party secretary in Chongqing
the next day into news early
truth be heat fans being Lyndon -
manager Wang leader Xi and own shishito
shoes would ball clearly in trouble
allegations about events Incheon team
began to flow freely the most shocking
of those revolved around Neil Heywood a
British businessman
the controversy over Bo Xilai and the
suspicious circumstances of neil Hayes
was a really serious charge for a senior
political leaders a white businessman
Neil Heywood in China has continued to
put pressure on the British government
Neil Heywood was a British business
consultant who came out to China in the
early to mid 1990s he studied Chinese
for bet in Beijing and then moved up to
the northeastern city of Dalian and he
got to know boss Eli after writing to
him directly to ask if he could help in
attracting foreign investment to the
city and if war could help him Haywood
was what is known as a fixer expats who
exploit their connections in China to
help broker deals for foreign companies
he really seemed to cultivate a bit of
an air of mystery he played up to the
stereotype of the the British gentleman
overseas he liked to wear as a cream
linen suits he drove his Jaguar with
double-oh-seven and the number plate and
of course for business purposes he
needed to play up his his links to you
know powerful people in China after a
few years in Dahlia Haywood became a
part of the boy family's inner circle
developing a close relationship with
Bo's wife Gu Kailai after helping to
arrange for her son to study in Britain
well at some point the relationship with
gu Kailai
starts to deteriorate it's not clear
exactly when she believed that somebody
in that inner circle of friends and
advisors had betrayed her and around
that time Hayward starts to become
concerned about the fallout from this
this relationship his fears mounting
Haywood confided in a friend that he had
left documents detailing the bore
families overseas investments with a
lawyer in Britain as an insurance policy
then in November he was summoned to a
meeting in Chongqing Heywood's body was
reportedly found at the Nanshan holiday
lijiang hotel local authorities quickly
blamed his death on alcohol abuse and
cremated his remains
it took the British government three
months to request a formal investigation
the brief government has faced a
pressure from British press and
politicians about why
didn't respond earlier by the British
government's own admission they knew as
early as mid-january that there were
suspicions in the local expat community
about nil Hayward's death and as The
Wall Street Journal has reported there
were some British consular officials in
China who were concerned in even in the
immediate aftermath in November of mr.
Heywood's death for its part though the
UK government has repeatedly said it
initially didn't have any cause for
concern what prompted the UK to request
the investigation was Wong Lee Joon's
flight to the US consulate and what
officials there said Wong had told them
that he'd fallen out with borer after
telling his boss he believed Heywood had
been poisoned and that Haywood and gu
Kailai had been involved in some kind of
business dispute and at that point there
was a sort of cascade of revelations
about Haywood's connections to the poor
family which ultimately led to another
official announcement this time that
borsch ally had been dismissed from the
Politburo and the Central Committee and
was under investigation and then there
was a second announcement on the same
day that gu Kailai his wife was in
custody as a suspect in the murder of
Neil Heywood
the ultimate fate of boss Eli and his
wife remains unclear while bull is still
celebrated by many in Chongqing he and
gu Kailai have been criticized obliquely
in the state-run press and thoroughly
demonized in chatter on the chinese
internet the two have not appeared in
public since March and have been unable
to respond to the accusations against
them authorities launched an
investigation into chantings economy
that has cast serious doubts on the
Chongqing model with the Communist Party
getting ready to hand over power to a
new generation of leaders in the fall
those doubts have tilted the debate
about the country's future direction
just give you a figure between 2004 and
2010 Johnson built more than 50,000
miles of roads but having so much
interventioning the society that the
bigger problem is can the government
really afford the spending it has taken
on billions tens the billions of dollars
of debt this could really affect the
doctrinal direction that the party takes
because boss Eli really represented a
certain style of government and a model
of development for China over the next
ten years the voices within the party
who have been arguing for fewer fewer
restrictions on the private sector on
civil society and a greater role for the
rule of law they might find that there
they're in the ascendancy now but the
big question is whether they use this
opportunity then to actually really ant
enact the kind of reforms that they've
been advocating over the last few years
that uncertainty has led to concerns
beyond China's borders as the rest of
the world tries to understand what Bo's
fall means for their dealings with the
rising power with the rising popularity
of social media in China the impact of
boors case has been amplified even more
this is the biggest political scandal in
China for more than two decades and two
two decades ago there was no internet in
China Chinese people have never had such
freedom was such a tool we can use to
talk about political affairs
now that possibly it's most delicate
moment the Communist Party faces a
wrenching dilemma stay silent on the
details surrounding Bora and risk
angering and increasingly plugged-in
populist or expose the results of the
investigation and risk a potentially
fatal blow to the party's credibility
for The Wall Street Journal this is Josh
chin in Beijing
you
