how is it that a country that was a poor
British colonial outpost and has a small
population limited land space and no
natural resources has become one of the
most developed countries in the world in
a little over 50 years that country is
Singapore
Singapore is in Southeast Asia just off
the south coast of Malaysia and at the
heart of the fastest developing
continent in the world
the history of modern Singapore goes
back to 1819 when Sir Stamford Raffles
landed upon its shores he was on an
expedition on behalf of the British East
India Company to establish a new base in
the region
he still recognized even to this day the
shopping center an office block and a
hotel named in his honor what followed
was a hundred and twenty years of
British rule the remnants of this can
still be seen in the colonial district
during world war ii singapore fell into
the hands of the japanese and three and
a half years of brutal rule followed the
kranji war memorial is a reminder of
those who lost their lives
in May 1959 Singapore achieved full
independence under the prime
ministership of Lee Kuan Yew the role
that would remain his for the next
thirty years his vision was of a country
with a strong economy despite no natural
resources and a multicultural embracing
society a policy of keeping the local
population happy while attracting
foreign workers with different skill
sets is what has made Singapore the
success it is today Singaporeans have a
strong work ethic which is possibly down
to their troubled history and how they
have had to overcome adversities such as
colonial ownership and Japanese
occupation the population is made up
predominantly of Chinese Indians
and malaise the diversity of these
peoples can be seen in their respective
areas Chinatown Little India and the
Arab quarter and it well illustrates how
these different nationalities work
side-by-side with each other
Ahmed is a Singaporean taxi driver who
typifies the spirit of the population
actually I was born in Singapore in 1915
to Singapore 1050 was under the British
colony to be a taxi trouble in my part
I've been driving taxi for Passover
anything is I can say that I've been
working every day as a taxi driver so
whenever I feel I fired I just go back
home and take a short break so I play
possibly about then about 11 of us every
day but it's enjoyed to be a taxi driver
because you know your job what you are
doing to serve the people even though we
get that different people one but when
you live here we are in one no get in
one whatever we do yeah we live here
actually it is been a very good harmony
you know where we don't find trouble
after one another is a day so we like to
live in peace in Singapore I really
happy to live here is a good and fine
country as I can see then I thanks to
God and I was selected to live in
Singapore this is what all my design
one of these achievements which helped
Singapore rise to the economic success
it is now was the creation of the
Economic Development Board an agency
designed to encourage business and
foreign investment hi my name is
contraction
I'm the assistant managing director of
EDB EDP is the economic development
board of Singapore we are government
agency responsible for developing
Singapore's industry industry such as
electronics chemicals biomedical
industry we also are responsible for
attracting and helping international
companies set up their regional
headquarters Asian equities in single
the only resource we have is our people
and our people have been diligently in
that working they understand the
challenges that Singapore have to face
and they rise to the challenge
already over this period of a few
decades our people upgraded their
schemes we are very clear that economic
growth is very important when you have
economic growth you can solve many of
your other problems especially social
problems so I would believe is that you
if you have good economic growth you
will have they're good jobs for people
to grow faster than we are able to we
just have to be open to
having as many people as possible
contribute to disco
this means making sure first our room
people at the right skills the right
knowledge the right training the right
opportunities but that is upper limit
and when we reach the upper limit we
still wanna grow beyond that then we
must have on what we call international
talent people who have the right skills
where the right connections who also
believe in the Singapore story is a
welcome come and take part in this
school we will make it worth your while
for you you will have to do your part
but and so far this formula as well and
we have also noticed in this globalized
world we are not only please doing this
many many other cities are doing very
well by being very very open to
globalization
a sign of the EDB success in creating
opportunities for foreign workers is
Ravi tatran an Indian born businessman
who is the group president of the Louis
Vuitton mo a Hennessy organization well
I've been working in Singapore for about
13 years
however the continuous phase here was
eight years I had a in-between blip I
went to Shanghai and came back again the
Singapore has been most exciting part of
her journey foreign workers when they
come to Singapore they bring a variety
of things and what one is obviously the
cultural aspect itself beside that they
know the knowledge of markets so
knowledge of economies whether in East
like Japan Korea Taiwan China or unto
the west which is you know US Europe and
even mark allegation Middle East is very
vital it's one place where people are
extremely hardworking that is something
I think whole of Europe could take from
a place like Singapore this this nation
basically it is got a drive that we got
to cover up for few missed generations
we got to really achieve all that we
missed out on and when the whole nation
is pushing the wall together and to get
ahead every single day in life I think
it does create a phenomenal amount of
energy
