now are you a rusher
or are you a dragger or are you going to
be on my
time i'm going to be on your time this
is terence fletcher in this film jk
simmons delivers an oscar-winning
performance as the sadistic conductor of
the prestigious shaffer conservatory's
competing studio band in new york city
terence fletcher is highly intelligent
and violently manipulative utilizing an
array of draconian tactics like
exaggeration triangulation and
humiliation to erode the psyche of his
eager and naive students in effort to
bend them to his will he then justifies
these behaviors as coming off as a man
who was just trying to get the best out
of his students explaining it away with
an inflated rumor about two famous jazz
musicians terence fletcher is
representative of the horrors that can
occur when a malignant abuser finds
himself in a position of power and left
unchecked if i ever find one of these
lying around again i swear to
god
i will stop being so polite get the
out of my sight before i demolish you
whiplash is a 2014 oscar-winning drama
starring miles teller and j.k simmons
written and directed by damian chazelle
the film follows an ambitious young
music student andrew nieman as he
navigates the inherent pressures of
working his way up the ladder as a
drummer at new york's most competitive
music academy he eventually ends up
under the instruction of the conductor
of the school's competing studio band
terence fletcher a teacher who goes to
an extreme length to get the most out of
his students student-teacher
relationships are a crucial part of our
development as human beings outside of
our immediate family our teachers can be
some of the most influential people in
our lives this is what makes films like
dead poets society and school of rock so
impactful the student-teacher
relationship is something that we all
connect with on a personal level this is
even more true when you think about
higher education as young students begin
to hone in on what it is they want to
contribute to in this world they rely on
the instruction and advice of their
professor to guide them into their
careers in whiplash the character of
andrew neiman wants greatness and he
wants to become the next buddy rich and
all these wants drives and skills are
set up perfectly during the film's
opening scene we can see his focus and
determination we see his passion when
fletcher enters the room he uses the
phrase you know who i am we understand
that terence fletcher is at the top of
some sort of power structure within the
confines of schaefer academy and that
whoever he is it's important for andrew
to impress him this is where terence
fletcher's manipulation of andrew neiman
begins abusers who are good at what they
do spend an inordinate amount of time
figuring out what people want before
embarking on their quest to bend them to
their will when you put these people
into an environment like a music school
these abusers no longer have to do any
work whatsoever in figuring out what
people desire just the fact that andrew
neiman was accepted into the schaefer
academy of music tells someone like
terence fletcher everything they need to
know about what the student actually
wants the fact that this kid is up late
practicing on drums tells fletcher that
he is willing to do whatever it takes to
succeed at what he does and those two
things add up to something incredibly
exploitable the thing that makes terence
fletcher so terrifying to us as viewers
is that he seems to have a purpose for
being so terrible everything terence
fletcher does in this film is a
performance centered around one thing
and one thing only manipulating his
students into delivering the best
performance possible when terence
fletcher finally invites neiman to join
the studio band he tells him to show up
to rehearsal at 6am when the rehearsal
didn't even start until 9am fletcher
doesn't even care as to whether or not
neiman is there at 6am or not but neiman
does this is an early opening move in
fletcher's attempts to bend neiman to
his will during this initial rehearsal
scene we catch our first glimpse of
terence fletcher's abusive tactics when
he intimidates a student into a false
confession of being out of tune after
humiliating the student and kicking him
out of the band fletcher then reveals
that not knowing whether or not you're
out of tune is an even bigger problem
for the record metz wasn't not a tune
you were erickson
but he didn't know
and that's bad enough this is the music
academy equivalent to a public execution
the one in which an innocent victim was
punished for something he didn't even
really do in the first place this entire
situation feels like one of terence
fletcher's ways of establishing his
dominance over neiman before putting him
on the drums to see what he can do
during a break fletcher approaches
neiman and starts casually probing him
about his personal life this all seems
very pleasant but he's really just
utilizing charm to disarm neiman this is
another abusive tactic known as love
bombing in which an abuser attempts to
influence a person through
demonstrations of attention or affection
there's a key moment in this dialogue in
which terence fletcher asks neiman
parents musicians
no
what do they do from the outside it
seems like fletcher is asking this so he
can throw it back in his face later but
this question is really the moment in
which fletcher realizes that he can do
whatever he wants to andrew neiman
without any ties to the music industry
fletcher understands that neiman is
reliant on his approval alone to achieve
what he wants thus opening the door for
fletcher to basically operate from a
position of total authority over his
career trajectory once neiman gets onto
the drum set fletcher continues the
seemingly supportive persona that he
adopted in the hallway he even goes so
far as to call neiman buddy rich if you
recall the opening scene of the film
neiman has a picture of buddy rich on
the wall of his rehearsal space this is
fletcher appealing to neiman's drive and
motivation before completely tearing it
away during some of neiman's drum fills
fletcher stops him and begins informing
him that he is not drumming at the tempo
he wants him to play a little trouble
there this is where the tactic of
withdrawing comes into play the
emotional high neiman received from
fletcher validating him in the hallway
is slowly being replaced with
disappointment and inside a human mind
this tactic causes chemical reactions
akin to coming down from a really potent
drug fletcher then begins moving the
goal posts back and forth for neiman
creating an unreachable target this is
an extremely concentrated version of yet
another manipulation tactic called crazy
making the goal of which is to make the
victim doubt their own abilities and or
sanity so that you can further warp
their view of the world later on
creating this impossible tempo to reach
frustrates and terrifies neiman who at
this point is just a sweet kid trying
his hardest to impress his instructor
this continues back and forth until a
physical threat presents itself why do
you suppose i just hurled a chair at
your head neiman neiman supposes it's
the tempo this is fletcher basically
screaming look what you made me do
that's someone he is currently abusing a
now stunned neiman begins to flounder
over his speech sweat and become
completely and utterly nerve-wracked and
this is where fletcher goes in for the
kill and begins physically assaulting
neiman in front of the entire ensemble
this 50 year old man is literally
beating his tempo into this 19 year old
psyche while screaming in his face
humiliation is the next tactic fletcher
uses to break neiman and when he finally
begins crying fletcher knows that he has
succeeded at what he intended to do in
the first place which was to completely
and utterly break his student down to
tears and then embarrass him in front of
the entire ensemble before removing him
from the drums he is stripping neiman of
his humanity in an effort to mold him
into the type of musician he wants him
to be which was the goal from the moment
he announced he'd be placing him on the
drums in the first place neiman is
completely and utterly broken and the
next time we see him he is practicing
the drums until his hands literally
bleed if you delve deep enough into any
artistic or athletic pursuit you will
find some fringe mentalities on how arts
and athletics should be approached there
seem to be a theme of needing to suffer
greatly in order to generate a desired
outcome in performance the no pain no
gain mentality has been passed down onto
generations for centuries and the idea
that in order to achieve greatness a
person must be broken down and stripped
of all their dignity before proceeding
with their career trajectory is not
unheard of while whiplash takes this
mentality to extreme and brutal levels
damien chazelle is trying to show us
that these tactics have a lasting impact
on a young and fragile psyche he's
telling us that these practices can
begin to erode someone's self-perception
and cause immense harm in just a few
small moments after terence fletcher's
assault we then observe andrew nieman's
downward spiral into a pattern of
unhealthy behaviors that end up
alienating him from his family friends
and romantic pursuits throughout the
movie all of that is born from his
introductory scene in the studio band's
rehearsal room he triangulates neiman
again by bringing another drummer in to
compete for his spot on the band forcing
three different drummers to play for
countless hours until the studio drum
set is soaked in blood he imbues andrew
neiman with so much pressure anxiety and
toxicity that at one point he leaves the
scene of a serious car accident in which
he was severely injured just to make it
to a performance on time terence
fletcher is a truly terrifying character
he is a sadistic perfectionist hellbent
on using verbal mental and physical
abuse on young adults to force them into
doing exactly what he wants jk simmons
delivers a performance that is rich with
subtleties and the choices he makes in
bringing terence fletcher to life are
uncanny in the hands of a lesser
performer terence fletcher could come
off as seemingly stereotypical but the
more you observe the nuanced layers
simmons brings to life through his eye
movements and facial tics the more you
discover you begin to see the inner
workings of a victimizing maniac play
out through the veneer of a passionate
teacher in the mind of terence fletcher
all of his abuses and manipulations are
justified because he's trying to inspire
greatness and there's nothing more
terrifying than a narcissistic sociopath
driven by a warped sense of purpose
sitting in a position of power that's it
for this one folks be sure to let us
know what you think in the comment
section below you might see a couple of
links to some of our other videos in the
player window here feel free to click on
those if you'd like to stick around and
thanks for watching nostalgic
[Music]
you
