What If instead of watching The
Fountains at the Bellagio in Las Vegas
you're instead driving across a bridge
to the luxurious Beau Rivage or if
instead of watching the volcano at the
Mirage you are staying at the luxurious
Bombay Club what if the man credited
with building the modern Las Vegas ended
up losing his Empire over accusations of
actual assault and not to mention a
federal investigation to meddling in a
foreign government some of those things
never came to pass and tragically for
Steve Nguyen several of them actually
happened Steve went is credited with
being the father of the Modern Day Las
Vegas experience but it wasn't always a
sure bet he would succeed in Sin City
along with his successes there have been
personal tragedies and loss lawsuits and
heavy allegations if Steve win a
business Visionary that saw the future
of gaming or a man that took his power
and wielded it to destroy the career of
innocent young women who spoke out
against him stick through to the end of
this video for one of the most bizarre
and twisted ends to a Vegas story that
you might ever hear from his early life
initial failure on Las Vegas strip to
its amazing impact to the city and
recent troubling allegations lawsuits
and his Fall From Grace
this is the story of Stephen A Wynn
now creating a video on Steve Wynn isn't
easy he tends to have a habit of suing
people if they say things about him that
might damaged him or his brand
okay I'm making that up think not in
1997 he nearly put publisher barricade
books out of business after they
released an unauthorized biography about
his life
now sure that book was suggested that he
had Direct highs to the mafia but with
this video I need to tread lately when
we discuss how Steve was forced to leave
the industry he revolutionized
altogether more on that later but for
now I guess we'll just start at the
beginning and that means the start of
Steve's life but before there even was a
Steve win and all there was was a
Stephen Allen Weinberg his father
changed the family name a few years
after young Steve was born claiming he
wanted to avoid anti-jewish
discrimination but if I had to speculate
it might have something to do with the
somewhat controversial lifestyle his
father was known for but more on that in
a second Steve was raised in Utica New
York and his father sent him to only the
finest schools with Steve graduating
from The Mentalist School an expensive
private school meant to keep Steve away
from the same business his father had
been involved in most of his life so
what business was that the not so
prestigious bingo parlor business of
which the senior win ran several along
the east coast of the United States and
if you thought that young Steve made his
first trip to Las Vegas in the 1960s you
would be wrong having moved got to Sin
City as a boy with his father as his
father attempted to move up to the big
leagues and manage the bingo parlor a
thin Silver Slipper it was during this
trip which ultimately ended in a
complete failure in bankruptcy of the
parlor that a few things became evident
to the young Steve firstly that his
father had a really vicious gambling
addiction and that as he was quoted as
saying later in life the only way to win
in a casino is to own the casino
nevertheless his father tried to keep
young Steve away from gaming even
sending him to the University of
Pennsylvania where he earned his
Bachelor of Arts in English literature
with a career path that would next see
him transfer to Yale law school a path
which would change radically when he
received a call in March of 1963
informing him tragically that his father
had died during open heart surgery upon
traveling back to the family as the
eldest son to help with settling his
father's Affairs Wynn learned his
father's gambling habit had not stopped
in Vegas with a failed bingo parlor but
instead just kept going to the tune of a
staggering 350 thousand dollars and if
that doesn't seem staggering right now
it was in 1963 in today's money that
translates with inflation to over 3.4
million dollars it was at that point
that his father's plans to remain out of
a family business ended and when entered
into the bingo parlor industry
determined to write the ship and dig his
family out of financial ruin within just
five years Wynn was able to turn the
bingo parlor business around he cashed
out in order to Head West to Las Vegas
his plan here was simple become a
minority shareholder in one of the
original strip casinos but little did he
know that he'd be caught in Scandal
nearly from year one the story of Steve
Wynn in Las Vegas starts with the
property long turned to dust in the
desert and as we will see at the end of
this video Steve may have had in a way
his revenge on the first deal that ever
did him dirty in Las Vegas it all
started in 1967 with Steve taking a
thirty thousand dollar loan and
combining it with fifteen thousand
dollars of his own money he bought into
a group redeveloping what was previously
known as the New Frontier now this would
be Steve's first taste at the rotten
Legacy left by the mafia after just a
few years it was discovered that the
project had been financed with money
linked to the Detroit Mafia this also
LED win to losing out for the first and
possibly the last time to a fellow
casino owner and before long the group
decided to sell out to then king of Las
Vegas Howard Hughes for 25 million
dollars because Steve had a small share
in the project just enough to earn
profits from Casino wins he walked away
with very little from the sale and after
a few years operating a wine and liquor
importing company when was ready to
re-enter the gaming industry in Las
Vegas by 1973 wind became the majority
shareholder in the Golden Nugget in
downtown Las Vegas and was also at that
time the youngest casino owner in the
city when changed the way people viewed
downtown Las Vegas promoting the Golden
Nugget as a destination were acts like
Frank Sinatra Dolly Parton and Kenny
Rogers would play by 1983 you wined
parlaida's investment into the Golden
Nugget into a huge success making what
was at the time the smallest Casino in
Vegas into what was at the time the
number one most profitable while
downtown was a success win still had his
sight set on what was then becoming
known as the big leagues in Vegas a shot
to play the casino Monopoly game on the
main Las Vegas strip and if timing and
location are everything wind was
certainly in the right place at the
right time you see since when first
arrived in Las Vegas all those years ago
the casino industry had experienced a
dramatic overhaul with people like win's
Banker friend e Perry Thomas and state
lawmakers changing laws in 1967 to allow
corporations to own casinos and gaming
licenses the fact that win was a bona
fide legit business person with
connections to Wall Street further
helped him gain capital for his projects
all of this success was mixed with
bitter personal experiences when
divorced his wife Elaine whom he married
in 1967 in 1986. now this is just the
start of a cycle with what we will learn
about win later on in the video with a
string of relationships lawsuits and
questions that would often set him off
at times storming out of interviews and
allegedly going off on rants over his
employees
the question is how can you be sure how
can you be positive how can anybody well
you can't in this world
what you can be sure of is that in the
end oddest people will do the right
thing
that's why we all survive Mel Harris and
we kept our gambling licenses in the
state of New Jersey recommended our
licensing after they investigated this
and if I don't see that sentence in this
edited version of this tape I will choke
both of you after this question and
answer
it was in 1987 however that wind changed
the casino industry forever when sold
his Atlantic City Golden Nugget property
to help fund the project and then did
something unheard of turning to Wall
Street and financing the property using
risky junk bonds junk bonds are bonds
essentially money lent out to be paid
back later which are considered very
high risk this means that lenders often
expect them to fail but we'll lend them
out for high returns that they can offer
this was the first time that any casino
property was financed by Wall Street
with pass Vegas strip locations getting
crooked loans from Teamsters unions now
as this video is about Steve Wynn we're
not going to focus entirely on too many
of the single casinos subscribe right
now because we'll be covering all these
on their own in dedicated videos but all
you need to know about the Mirage is
that it was a huge Financial Risk
kicking off a new era of Las Vegas that
would pave the way for the present day
all eyes were focused on wins in the
sprawling 3000 room Fantasy Island that
now dominates the Las Vegas Strip the
620 million dollar Mega Resort is the
first built in Las Vegas in 15 years it
commands attention in the opening of The
Mirage set a trend that would be
followed for the next decade a genius
marketing move for a time before
smartphones and digital cameras but more
on that in a minute when the property
next door came up for sale when
purchased the land to develop a
family-friendly Resort which became the
Treasure Island since Cirque did so well
in the back parking lot of the Mirage
years before a custom-built theater was
constructed and when it opened in 1993
mystere became the first resident Cirque
act in Las Vegas's history the opening
of these properties brought something
entirely new not just through the inside
of Las Vegas properties but also to the
outside as when constructed giant free
shows for anyone to stop and see that
ran on regular schedules The Mirage
Volcano shot Flames into the night sky
while swashbuckling pirates dueled with
swords and pyrotechnics at the Treasure
Island all part of a word of mouth
advertising campaign to draw people to
the properties and entice them inside
again in a world before YouTube tiktok
and Facebook free publicity was hard
defined and Wynn had found the magic
recipe win's next resort was set to open
in 1998 but before this the cracks in
his clean Casino Mogul Persona started
to show in 1997 a lawsuit against Wynn's
company Mirage Resorts alleged that wind
told cocktail servers that they were too
overweight to serve drinks at the
property quote he said lose the fat lose
the flab and lose the ass he slapped his
own ass before walking out the server at
the time who was five foot seven inches
tall and 148 pounds told the media she
was not alone a group of women allege
the same treatment but for when this was
just the start of a string of
allegations that would plague him in
more recent years unfazed the domination
over Vegas would continue Bellagio is
advertising itself as having the very
best and restaurants and shops right as
we mentioned earlier in this hour This
was meant to be an aesthetic experience
for everyone who comes here Steve win's
goal here really to raise the bar he
wanted to attract tourist wanna that
maybe perhaps would skip Las Vegas they
might have thought it's a little too
tacky for them they'd go to Rome or to
Paris or to London well he really wants
to attract that high-end visitor the
visitor here and after selling his
company Mirage resorts to MGM Grand
Incorporated for a 6.6 billion dollars
in June of 2000 he purchased the Desert
Inn took his company Wynn Resorts public
in 2002 and officially became a
billionaire in 2004 doubling his net
worth from 650 million to 1.3 billion
dollars the win was built to replace the
Desert Inn and upon opening in 2005 it
became the largest privately funded
construction project in the nation's
history at 2.7 billion dollars with a
personal success came straight on his
marriage by the late part of the early
2000s Steve and his wife Elaine who
helped run his company were seeing
trouble signs in their relay ship but
undeterred wind opened its final Las
Vegas property The Encore on December
22nd 2008. three years ago I stood over
there introducing you to win Las Vegas
now I'm following it up the best way I
know how
this is Encore
[Music]
it was in 2010 that Stephen is first and
second wife Elaine would finally divorce
for good with Elaine staying on as a
director with his company board until
2015 and Steve remarrying in just 2011
in a ceremony where else but at the Wynn
Las Vegas and throughout his life when
has been embroiled in multiple lawsuits
between book publishers claiming he had
mafia ties to the creator of Girls Gone
Wild first over Chuck fraud and then
defamation of character he even was
accused by the United States government
for acting as a foreign agent without
properly registering in China but it was
in 2018 when for the first time when
faced a battle that it would seem even
he might not be able to win a battle
with allegations of insectual it was
then in 2018 when the Wall Street
Journal first broke the story a
manicurist who earlier was paid 7.5
million dollars settlement to remain
silent who had accused win of whipping
her following a manicure this was
followed by a 20 million dollar fine
from the Nevada state gaming commission
for completely ignoring these
allegations in a timely manner in the
first place the allegations were quite
severe multiple women alleging a pattern
of misconduct spanning decades
accusations ranging from Simply leering
at women using inappropriate language
and forcing sex to happen on demand to
even more bizarre stories of having
specially trained German Shepherds who
only responded to German commands
present to intimidate these women into
compliance The Wall Street Journal spoke
to 150 people that all seemed to have
the same type of story rampant abusive
power severe temper and a man who made
you scared to speak out for fear that
you would never get another job working
in the casino industry in Nevada or
anywhere else for that matter this
combined with a federal lawsuit filed in
2018 by former Salon manager at the win
who accused win of firing and
blacklisting her from work after she
came forward in 2006 led to win stepping
down from the company bearing his own
namesake His official resignation came
February 6 of 2018 when he announced
that he would be cutting ties and moving
on
now until the courts have their say all
of these allegations are simply
accusations made by people and this
video is not casting any sort of Doubt
on the alleged victims or on the
Innocence or guilt of when as it stands
now Steve Nguyen is until proven guilty
still innocent his namesake Towers over
skylines around the world and regardless
of what happens when the judge has their
say he was still a Visionary that helped
build Las Vegas bring the casino gaming
industry into Focus as a legitimate
business and left a decidedly positive
mark on the business forever and as for
that Revenge the wind Corporation
ultimately purchased the site of the New
Frontier where Steve himself was forced
to sell all those years earlier the land
where the casino once sat is Barren but
the fence around the property it's
emblazoned with the signature of the man
who came to Vegas all those years ago
and tried to own a piece of it my name
is Steven and if you're just browsing
through be sure to click subscribe and
hit the bell for future uploads and
leave us a comment if you've ever been
in a win Resort anywhere in the world
will you that helps a lot with the
channel thanks so much for watching I
love you sweet Caroline and we say
goodbye with the three two one and click
