he is making himself a victim and he's
making me look like the liar poor him
he's had nothing to do with this the
stories were horrible but they were true
and he is the one who's responsible for
all of this so we're texting one day
very is getting very dirty very naughty
I get a text from The Bodyguard the
Spanish bodyguard are you texting David
right now he text me stop he's showing
it to his friends and all
laughing
first memories are London I went to a
school called Basset house I remember
the books we read so yeah my childhood
memories are of um London the gardens we
had noting Hill very happy memory mommy
was the Hands-On mommy very sort Spanish
she cooking lovely meals and good at
taking us out to cultural things museums
and excursions weekends spent walking in
the dunes and happy childhood
did love to go out and dance loved music
naughty things like I tell my parents
I'm going to friends to study and we'd
end up sneaking into Pacha then I go to
London I go to university it's common
knowledge that I'm bisexual and so one
of the things I loved about London was
after a few months when I made some
friends I discovered Soho and I
discovered a bar called the freedom bar
wow that was just I just felt at home I
was like oh my God I'm not alone I felt
in a way that I kind of belonged to
uh that London was very mean I signed up
at a recruitment agency an international
recruitment Agency for
jobs and my first interview was to be
the PA to a tennis agent and that's how
I got into sports the football
Department's big client David Beckham uh
was going to sign a contract with Real
Madrid when gr Road I sitting down in
reception waiting for my colleague
because we were going to go out for
lunch and he walked P looked me up there
gave me SM like and I just looked at my
I'm not a player and a big thing because
you know David be from Manchester United
was signing with Real Madrid so the
football team said can you come and help
you know you're from Madrid you speak in
Spanish I I could have been a c driver
in Madrid well I knew the city and I
speak the language so I can be really
helpful and he stepped off the plane
this is my first impression of him this
because the time I saw him in the office
doesn't really count it was like a real
life barban C playing up for for the
Press it's who they are they're
Superstars a phased by it it was just
okay that's them because the clients is
who I'm working for so I was responsible
of looking after Victoria that weekend
David was going to be whisked off to the
football stadium to sign the contract
how did you what your impressions of
them nice yeah no
problem
witty big weekend media wise for them
worldwide press coverage coverag and
what were your impressions of David at
the time nice guy yeah they were both
really nice I was in charge uh of
finding them a home I got him a Spanish
teacher I got him a Spanish security
team house hunting school hunting
planning fun weekends when the kids were
visiting to go Safari Parks yeah it was
very full on when they were all there I
was house hunting for them and something
about the house the pool the gym I can't
remember what it was but David said
let's say David said he wanted a and
then I spoke to Victoria and her PA in
England and they and and Victoria want
to be the next call is Victoria just
wants you to talk directly to her this
is when he's in asan and so he starts
texting me late at night David sorry
I've been given instructions not to talk
to you directly and he texts me back and
says we don't have to tell
anymore tonight we bring you the story
of how David
Beckham became a global phenomenon I'd
seen an ad on Netflix I love Netflix I
love documentaries I love real life
stories so Thursday morning I get up and
breakfast with the kids and uh check my
Instagram I've got a few new 100
followers and I thought that happens
from time to time because old stories
get published and then some people start
following me so I didn't think much of
it and I dropped the kids off at school
I went to work I work as a medical
assistant in the medical office and Sun
the phone rinks and it's an Unown number
so I answer but I'm at works I'm like
hello and it's a Norwegian journalist
from do blooded and wanted to know if I
had any comments in documentary and I
just said uh no comments I'm at work
please don't call me again and I hung up
and then the phone started wiing again
and again and then I started realizing
uh something must have been said but I
didn't know what had been said and it
was just been shock the first days and
receiving so much hatred what did you
think when you saw the um that episode
what was your what was your reaction he
is making himself a victim and he's
making me look like the liar he's making
me look like I've made up these horrible
stories I'm the one that's made Victoria
suffer poor him he's had nothing to do
with this and it was so awful I think
it's one thing if you don't want to take
responsibility for things at home
because of your family and your children
that's absolutely fine and if he hadn't
even mentioned any of that and just said
it was a tough time for us and moved on
I wouldn't be here today the stories
were horrible but they were true and
he's the one who's responsible for all
of this he's the one who's responsible
for his wife's suffering he's the one
that decides to lie to her to say we
don't have to tell my wife he's made all
those choices was there anything
particular that he said that on that
documentary that yes it was how awful it
was to see his wife suffer so much that
bothered me
why because he's the one that's caus the
suffering it's his behavior it's his
lying this is why I have decided after
giving it so many days thought to speak
if I don't speak if I don't if I remain
silent I will be known as the liar the
one who made up the stories and I also
have a family and I also have children
and they also have Google and they can
also watch documentaries and I want them
to know that their mother was brave
enough to stand up against them and to
stand up for the truth if he was going
going to touch on this time and how
difficult it was it would have been
really nice for him to have said not my
proudest time um you know it was a tough
time for us something like that just
maybe a little bit of acknowledgement or
no acknowledgement at all and don't even
touch the subject I'd never received any
closure if somebody had just reached out
to me if he had just called me and said
I am so sorry how can we fix this things
would have been so different but I you
know I was made to look like a liar I
felt like I had to continue to defend
myself so we're texting one day very
it's getting very dirty very naughty and
it's fun and suddenly um I get a text
from The Bodyguard the Spanish bodyguard
are you texting David right now you text
me stop he's showing it to his friends
and all
laughing I was very hurt and that hurt
and that pain led me to become more
leser fair and to not give a about
keeping this big for him when he's
treating me like that I've very much
accepted the choices that I've made the
mistakes that I've made I've come to
terms with them in hindsight the best
lessons I've learned in life that path
those mistakes everything I've learned
the way has brought me to where I am
today and I am in the most wonderful
wonderful place I could be I'm so
grateful I have the most incredible
husband children family I'm just like
you probably wouldn't have met if it
hadn't been you know
you have this life
