the BBC investigation reveals human
rights abuses including torture rape
forced abortion and enslavement of
Nigerian British South African and
American Nationals who are members of
The Synagogue Church of all Nations the
BBC says evidence was meticulously
gathered for more than two years at a
formal presentation and private
screening of the 90minut documentary
titled disciples The Cult of TV Joshua
guests from the media civil society and
religious organizations of the view that
although the leader of the church is not
alive the institutions of State Should
fish out questionable characters we use
philanthropy to hide their deeds it is
not an indictment on the church it is an
indictment on who is
accused and it's it's quite unfortunate
that he is not alive to to defend
himself all this would have been very
very good if he is still alive and when
he was alive what move were taken to
confront him with these issues and get
him convicted the death of a person does
not mean that the issue is dead there
are
equally important and many victims who
have suffered as a result of the man's
atrocity we have to be bold as African
journalist to tell it as is once it
affects people the church is a corporate
entity so the fact that the head of the
church is dead it's it's a committee
it's a they have a they have a board of
trustee so the law can go after the
board of trustee this kind of enous
criminal conduct or act cannot take
place without something happening the
BBC said the investigation started
before the death of TV Joshua on June 5
2021 in response to why took long to
bring the allegations to public space
although some critics say the
documentary is an attack on Christian D
in Nigeria the BBC
disagrees the church synagogue probably
started even way before I was born now
this is it for the generation who we
have told this story who have seen the
film decades to come if that church the
name is still standing we would always
remember this film we would always
remember this story so now this one I'm
pushing out to our institutions in
Nigeria what are we going to be doing
what are we saying yes the pastor is
late but for all I
know the institution the church in
question was built on his name the
action on his name the call is for
government to beam his search light on
the many TV joshuas investigate the BBC
documentary and do what's right with
within the confines of the law if we
keep talking a lot about this is beyond
TB Joshua there are so many TB Joshua
out there um in form of religious
leaders some of them are political
leaders because we also need to put this
in the brother around relig about
leadership whether within the Christian
faith or Muslim faith or whatever Faith
leaders must be held accountable we're
find this out there already and nothing
has been done so far so and I think for
me is about the role of our institutions
to ensure that they have further in
investigations done happen well what has
happened now and the kind of coverage
that BBC has given the story I think it
will go a long way in encouraging more
people to come out and it also go a long
way in sending messages to you know any
institution or any individual anywhere
with currently perpetuating similar uh
uh acts you know because you never can
tell that might be people who are
replicating TB Joshua somewhere in some
corner of the country or in some of the
glob right now this type of issues
worries us disturbs us and at any point
we add our meetings or we hold meetings
we discuss them but the problem is we
know them it exists we hear them every
day we even feel them and we
discourage people of God from this I
mean patronizing this type of people
born on June 12th
1963 in arid coko in Uno State Nigeria
TB Joshua founded The Synagogue Church
of all nations in 1987 with a few
members and later expanded to have large
followers within and outside Nigeria he
undertook philanthropic activities and
in 2011 forbs listed him as the third
richest Pastor in Nigeria with an
estimated net worth of between1 and $15
million the consensus now is that the
government should muster the will to
check human rights violations
exemplified by the BBC
report
