[Music]
my name is Aldo bazon as a young man in
America I often think about what my role
in society is supposed to be men are
trash everywhere in this country men are
portrayed in the media it's pervert
perverts are every the all these
commercials are out there where the
man's like the the lazy guy on the couch
a to the concept of masculinity and the
perception of man's role in society is
rapidly changing I don't need a man girl
you don't need noing m i can Finance
myself I can myself and I can feed
myself there's so many trash men out
there yes they're all trash this shift
is leaving young men like myself
grappling with questions about their
identity and sense of purpose we spent
half a century telling men that the
future was female and that women
allegedly didn't need to rely on men for
anything do you think men are important
like for
What on a quest to find answers to these
riddles and more I spoke to Everyday
People on the street and invited a few
respected experts to sit down and dig
deep into this controversial subject
imagine thinking that a man is going to
make you
happy may the Lord make his face to
shine upon us a man and a woman
remind me that I don't need a
[Music]
man what are some of the stereotypes
that you think of when you hear the word
masculinity domineering male figure I
suppose unnecessarily protective
everybody trying to put men up higher I
think toxic is probably the first thing
that comes to mind when you hear the
word toxic masculinity what do you think
of disguises itself behind chivalry
mansplaining controlling and unemotional
and woman should glide through the world
that I create instead of creating her
own world feeling like you have to be
like a big tough guy to be a man conquer
and and Destroy kind of
mentality
Mar well when you were in your 20s you
you were all in on the idea that
masculinity is toxic so much so that you
set out to make the documentary The Red
Pill can you talk to me about how you
changed in your beliefs as you were
making this documentary that was in my
20s and I I made quite a few films with
that mindset I I was really a feminist
filmmaker I was making films about
women's rights and also lgbtq issues and
I saw men as the oppressors of women
throughout history I believed that women
made 77 cents on a man's dollar and I
believed in the patriarchy so I set out
to make a film exposing misogynists even
while I was filming I was still really
resistant to what I was hearing I was
angry and was even getting hives just
thinking about how much I disliked what
they were saying but then when I put the
pen to paper I think that's when I
really started to question my beliefs I
couldn't argue with what they were
saying and when I did the fact checking
with the statistics that they were
putting out there about history and
about gender roles I realized that they
were right and then when I was
transcribing the feminist interviews I
was realizing there were a lot of plot
hes grave apologist inest supporting
woman
hating the feminists really
didn't understand the men's rights
argument very well and so because they
didn't understand it very well they
couldn't debate it very well don't even
start with that whole oh but you don't
think about the men's issue well then
you know what start your own movement
which they have but maybe make it a
little more about legitimate issues and
I realized that they weren't really
listening to the men's rights
perspective the more and more I've dug
into men's issues and boy issues the
more I realize how important a present
father is in a child's life and that
never became more apparent to me than in
the last 3 years of starting my own
journey of having a son and now a second
son when you remove masculinity you
don't get docile weak men you get
dangerous men that lash back out at
Society there's a really great African
proverb that says a child who is not
embraced by The Village will burn it
down to feel its
warmth over time it seems like toxic
masculinity has become a catchall term
for any male behavior that someone finds
offensive or
unpleasant this inconsistent arbitrary
criticism leads many men to fall into
the Trap of actual toxic Behavior as I
think about becoming a father one day I
want to understand just how important a
male figure is in a child's
life manhood isn't something that just
happens by accident tell me about your
upbringing and the masculine role models
that you had growing up well for me it
was a little it was a little bumpy you
know so I was born to a teenage mom so I
was born to a fatherless household I
think I was in Jeopardy before my
stepfather came around
statistically speaking I definitely was
a Jeopardy the guys going to jail the
mental illness everything says that
without a father or man in the house
You're vulnerable I don't want my family
my children to be vulnerable my presence
changes everything for them they can
sleep at night they know if there's a
threat their father will deal with it I
have an 8-year-old daughter who is
absolutely Dynamic who can do anything
athletically intellectually spiritually
and emotionally she is is a Dynamo the
fact is I don't want her playing against
boys in soccer I don't even let my sons
rough her up do you think I'm going to
let your son rough
r we have this idea right now that men
and women are completely equal that
they're they're almost interchangeable
is that correct no not even close I mean
my wife was gone for the weekend my
children could see a big difference
between mommy and daddy she brings this
softness this this nurturing I bring
this charge this demand this expectation
and it's not that way it's just
masculinity who am I naturally as a man
it's tough for boys today and I feel for
them because they are told that they're
toxic if they hold the door open all
these things and that were seen as
chivalrous are now looked down upon I
teach my sons they they open the door
for their mother and get this they open
it for their sister we put a premium on
our role you know everything should be
equal not equal in responsibility we're
equal in value and the fact that we're
not the same as what allows us to shine
my wife's femininity is able to flourish
because of me but so is my masculinity
who I am as a man and a father very
different without her contrast there my
sons wouldn't get the same lesson my
daughter wouldn't get the same lesson we
have seen the damaging impact of society
public figures and the media vilifying
masculinity and disregarding the role of
fathers at home but what do our
psychological establishment say about
men's roles in relationships and Society
at Large Dr Khloe carmichel New York
clinical psychologist and relationship
expert good to have you here thanks for
having me this a great subject a lot of
people are interested in this idea of
that masculinity is is synonymous with
violence or War these other negative
stereotypes when people start to believe
this it makes sense that they would want
to neutralize masculinity if not destroy
it all together one of the things that
to me has stood out as a psychologist is
that the American Psychological
Association came out with these guides
lines about working with men and boys
and it really in my opinion pathologized
traditional masculinity the entire
document was really full of criticisms
of things like a drive for Success a
drive for power a drive for competition
all of which are actually things that
can really help Society are women more
dissatisfied in the relationships with
men today yes I mean statistics show
that women and men are actually both
unhappy and there could be a lot of
different social drivers around that but
I do think it's important to look at and
consider the fact that maybe we're
forcing people into these politically
correct boxes that don't necessarily fit
for example women don't typically even
say want a date a man who makes less
money than they do women typically don't
want a date a man who's shorter than
they are that points to the simple fact
that women tend to be drawn to a man who
is at least able to provide and to
protect I just feel like there's a lack
of acknowledgement about the role of men
and their
contributions just like these young
women want a man who's going to love and
respect them as a woman I would
encourage them to think about offering
the same gift to their boys and
men do you think traditional masculinity
is good I don't think anything
traditional is good I think everything
is supposed to evolve what's
traditionally masculine or feminine
doesn't work in today's society you
think that Society needs strong men
women can be strong too but talking
about women does society need strong men
I would only say certain jobs do we not
need men to protect us I don't think we
need men to protect people in particular
cuz I don't really believe on the
implications of social gender what about
building the roads and going to war and
you know and sewage jobs and
construction don't we need men for
certain things we need just bodies for a
lot of things what people call men power
is just body power and guess what women
have bodies too depression for a man is
that feeling nobody wants me I'm not
needed anymore basically I'm out of work
nobody there to respond to me nobody
there for me to fix help serve support
being out of work is the major
depression for men or being in a
marriage where you feel you can't do
anything to make your partner happy and
that's why depression is very different
for a man than for a woman men and women
are different biologically we're
different and to respect those
differences is not equality when the
people say we want gender equality what
they're asking for is gender sameness
men and women are different in a
positive way can you talk to me a little
bit more about that need for seeing a
healthy relationship between a man and
wife and that effect it has on the kids
yeah it's so so so important 25% of
children today are growing up in a
household without a father 50% of
African American boys are growing up
without a father you have no role model
at all of I can be a powerful good man
they don't know what that is and a good
man is someone that women trust so does
my mother trust dad the prevailing
narrative today is that traditional
gender roles aren't necessary anymore
because they were completely a result of
a social construction yes yes let me
interrupt it was a social construction
by wise people to make men good and make
women happy that was a social
construction that did it that's why my
family could be so happy growing up it
was the 50s a man could earn enough
money to support his wife she could
spend time with her children till they
grew up she could hire help to help her
with her children she could live in a
safe neighborhood that's all gone middle
class is crashing down we've gone too
far we've gotten too Progressive and
taking a couple steps back into
traditional gender roles is probably
what we need right now well what suffers
is boys what suffers is girls boys don't
know what it means means to be a man
girls don't know what it means to be a
woman where you can depend on someone
and you don't have to do it all our
children are confused John Roseman has a
master's degree in Psychology is the
father of two and the grandfather of
seven he has been offering parenting
advice through his column and books for
decades can you tell me about how this
idea of the family center being the
husband and wife has changed throughout
your lifetime the American family over
the last 50 years has become a
matriarchy the American father is
becoming more and more
irrelevant that Dad is not the child
rearing Authority mom is the dad's
opinion it's often treated as uh
irrelevant his voice is a nuisance when
boys grow up without fathers they don't
understand what authentic masculinity
looks like and they get in involved in
drugs and they get involved in gangs and
they get involved in you know other
things that are symptoms of a fake
masculinity that is overtaking America
women uh greater and greater percentage
of them really do believe that they can
get along without men why can't they men
embody traits that women don't have and
women don't realize it but when push
comes to shove women women will look to
men for protection what are some ways
that you've seen as a child therapist
that education and child raising has
changed that's had a negative impact on
young boys the primary example of this
is the diagnosis of ADHD I told probably
three out of every four kids are boys
the message says there's something wrong
with you and this pill will correct it I
think translating the sense of of
induced helplessness in our young male
population whenever I hear of a young
person in his mid 20s even early 30s
who's living in the parents' basement
it's always a young man and I think that
this reflects that young men are just
kind of losing a sense of
purpose and we don't
realize depre ation of the American male
is going to seriously weaken American
culture we need men we need women but we
need
men what's your personal message to boys
and young men something that a lot of
women have wrong about men is they think
that men are about domination and
control and I actually think ultimately
what men
want I think they want to be love loved
and appreciated and seen for their
sacrifices
and I don't think that's what our
society is doing right
now I hope that men would figure out
that they were created for God they were
created to be a son a husband and a
father and it's okay to be a man sharing
your life with someone that's what life
is really about and it's through good
relationships with somebody who's very
different from you so many women say
what do I need a man for well you're
never going to have a man until you
figure it out I hope that men have the
fortitude to stand up against this
assault I don't think that they need to
wait for permission from anybody that's
part of the masculine role I think is to
be able to just assert who he is and to
be who he is my uh personal message to
young boys young men is that uh your
highest calling in life is to be a good
husband more than than anything else
would be your greatest contribution to
our
culture when masculinity is vilified the
path inevitably leads to a more feminine
culture dissatisfied women confused
children and a broken Society but when
traditional virtues like assertiveness
strength and confidence are harnessed
for good they enable men to pursue
greatness protect others and Rise To
Life's most difficult
challenges so men harness your
masculinity seek out responsibility and
lead with
[Music]
courage
