you
I think the term we would use now is
mixed martial arts Barton Wright had put
together kind of an interesting brain
trust there of martial artists from
around the world he is fully issue you
only one who stood it so he was probably
the only master of autism wasn't kind of
an early booster what was exciting as at
Barton right
certainly pioneered brought back to the
fore and actually several women can
defend themselves and then what physical
kind of wait but do so elegantly you
couldn't buy in retrospect using no
important figure for the same time who
was always forgotten for many members
the thing is anybody who's ahead of the
time when they're not there or the
fashions that would change they do get
sugar
not exactly pushing the background
because it's almost like they never were
behind the walls of that club in London
they must have done something other than
just go through the same basic set of
moves you have to assume that they stood
around and talked and try different
things out on each other and developed
new ideas you're trying to play with
them a little and say well okay what if
your opponent doesn't cooperate try
something you're not expecting how are
you going to respond to that I'm seeing
meetings and in Italy and in Germany and
British Columbia seems like every
weekend there's a new place where
somebody's trying it out there's the art
it's not ours it's Barton writes and
we're not going to rubber stamp it and
say you have to come to us before you
can do whatever you want we think that's
that's our legacy in it because it's his
legs
