[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
changing photographers the deadline for
the contest has
[Applause]
one of the very end of it
Oh
hey guys I hope you enjoyed that making
this short film was a lot of fun and I'm
gonna show you how we did it
it begins VFX here was obviously
creating the CD siren head I use blender
for making the character for the
animation I used a motion capture suit
by Rococo who we collaborated with on
this video and this suit made my life so
much easier if not for motion capture I
would have had to animate the senior
characters manually and it's such a slow
process now I just put the suit on and
act out all the stuff I need one of the
cool things about the smart suit is that
it's really easy to setup and it
connects to my computer via Wi-Fi so we
could even shoot outdoors just put the
suit on and do your thing and then have
all of that sweet animation applied to
any character an animation that would
have taken me a full day to make now
only takes me a few minutes it's a huge
time saver and as a filmmaker also does
VFX this is really valuable ultimately
it helps me make better stuff but in
lesser time thanks once again to Rococo
for this amazing collaboration make sure
to check out their web site to learn
more about how you can use motion
capture in your work all right guys
that's it for this video let me know if
you have ideas for my next video and if
you're new here consider subscribing and
I'll see you in the next video bye
