so yeah welcome to the channel and as
you know the trending thing right now is
TV Joshua's documentary and if you know
well he had other prophets who with no
aot of guil conscience or anything will
just defend him or go straight to the
point and defend him at all cost this
being the likes of Love bushiri Java the
man himself you Angel among others now
he recently was mocking T J that was
Angel now it's TI Joshua well in today's
video the sons are beginning to speak
and this is just getting more and more
interesting now before that Apostle Aros
to has been trending for a prophecy he
gave before this whole thing started so
let's begin with that the manifestation
of God that is going to be seen in the
church is
that
called
judgment let me read to us his very
words it a judgment of all
forms will be meted out on falsehood in
the house of
God all forms of infiltration in the
body of
Christ in terms of deceptions and
coverups will be
exposed so I'm saying that in the from
the next few weeks we're in January
before January
ends you will start hearing
news of several coverups that they have
people in church have
successfully done for several years that
will explode just watch
it the reason why this is happening is
because there is a new era that God has
initiated and the first impact the first
recipient of this new policy that heaven
has decided to
adopt is going to
be in the house of God so following this
is the prophet Sheed bushu who came out
with a long line of statements and this
is what he actually
[Music]
said so this was his defense he still
loves and cherishes his legacy and a
whole lot of things moving on his
Prophet lovey who did a whole video just
to address the situation and and in this
he asked many questions one of them
being what they will gain from this
documentary since the man himself is
dead and if you don't know Prophet L
believes he is meant to continue on the
works of T Joshua so if something like
this is hitting TV Joshua is definitely
going to affect him in one way or the
other so let's listen to what he had to
say too now you need to ask
yourself what is the
motive of making a video video or making
a documentary about a man who can't
defend himself that is the first red
flag anyone that has any kind of
wisdom the primary thing is always to
make sure you don't go with one side of
the
story now when the man was alive I
remember this when the man was alive
there were people who were paid to frame
him on stories if they've paid people to
frame me create stories about me and I'm
not where lifted as this man uh was in
his day God is taking me somewhere I
haven't arrived there yet but if they
could pay people to create stories about
me if they could do things to frame
me how much more for a man who took over
Africa for Christ took over the world
for Christ so the number one thing is
you have to ask yourself I'm not here to
give you uh my opinion I'm here to ask
you questions that you need to question
yourself with the first thing is why are
you going to create something that a man
is not alive to defend himself why
didn't they make this documentary when
he was
alive that is the first
issue number
two how can we
verify that the people on the on on on
the
documentary what they are saying is
completely the truth how can that be
verified there is no evidence other than
their words right now maybe he did do
them wrong maybe he didn't do them wrong
whatever the case may be but the
question is
this
how can we
[Music]
verify that what is being said is true
so there is it Prophet PIR has spoken
Prophet L has spoken and yet Java has
not spoken because I guess he's in a
fasting mood right now and he says no
phone policy so I'm sure he's busy with
that same with
who I know once bushiri has
spoken is definitely going to speak on
this issue and maybe in a live video or
something which I may not be able to
post but in case that happens I'll leave
it in the comment section so that you
guys can watch it on whatever Channel it
is on now back to arai who said a lot of
things are going to be exposed this year
beginning this January did he knew this
documentary was coming or is just the
prophecy from God and if that's so
what's next because the last time it was
you Angel recently T J and now T Joshua
the question being who is next
