she was married I don't know what
happened to her marriage maybe she was
divorced or whatever I don't know she
was married so she was a
woman and immediately she came in she
knelt down I am telling you this because
I'm a
witness please sir I am homeless I don't
have a place to stay fire engulfed our
[Music]
house prophet Joshua's wife has come out
to speak concerning the allegation
leveled against her husband by bisola
and she also narrated how bisola come
about like how bisa became part of the
family you know bisa also narrated so
many things against this prophet and his
wife has surfaced to say so many things
she further explained why bisola is
doing her best to make sure she T the
image of the Prophet you and I know that
bisa claimed that the late man of God
ried our when she was a member of his
church she also alleged that the clergy
man ran a kind of sex ring where he
slept with young virgins anytime he
wanted bisa Johnson worked for the
preacher and stayed with him for good 14
years because I'm a
witness years back in this
ministry this structure was not
here I said it again the prophet office
was just down
there it was a Wednesday service
and after the service people will come
in to see
him there's a way that office was
built for instance you are coming
through this way this is the entrance to
the
office you come in this is the office
but in this office there's two rooms
Here
There and there's something like this
before you get to the
room so this this is the prophet's
office you will walk in this way me
being me I hang
here and I'm watching as people comes
in and a woman I called her a woman
because before she came to the synagogue
she was married I don't know what
happened to her marri marriage maybe she
was divorced or whatever I don't know
she was married so she was a
woman
and immediately she came in she knelt
down I am telling you this because I'm a
witness please sir I am homeless I don't
have a place to stay fire engulfed our
house and the prophet was like this in
fact I can tell you the cloth he wore
that day you know those ghanian cloth
that have
stripes that was the cloth he wore that
day and he was listening to this lady I
was there watching after listening to
her said okay go and wait for me outside
she she went
[Music]
back and the shter was given to her in
this
ministry when she came in she want to
make me a friend I said no this one
cannot be my
friend over the years she tried to make
me a friend I said you cannot be my
friend because she doesn't know anything
about me today she can't say anything
about me because she doesn't know me
and
so we begin to live in the synagogue I
saw
how and I thank God that the prophet did
not give it to our
foolishness keep away from foolish
people stay away from them so that you
don't become what they
are when her time came to leave the
synagogue she
started
the prophet is this the prophet is that
that and this he has no wife he has no
child I said all those times I used to
come to my tiny sitting room to come and
tell me this one happened h m said you
don't know what is happening this one
happened I said I don't look at those
things though in fact I don't see
them who was
I who was right to you then
but you know what with all she has said
in this word about Prophet expecting her
to say one
thing why did the prophet spot at you
publicly in this
church spart at your face publicly you
had a pro a pastor talking touch me here
touch me there this is a woman that
would say come and touch my breast she
has
boy oh there's camp come and pray for me
stay away from foolish
people stay away from them so that you
don't become what they are who they
are right now we don't know who to
believe the more people surface the more
the issue get complicated I really don't
understand the way these things is going
right now because so many Nigerians
really do not know what to say
concerning this meanwhile some have
already taking side so who to believe
now should we believe bisa or we should
believe what TB Joshua's wife said but
the way bisa was seing in that video
like unveiling so many deep Secrets it
was as if she she she has grudges for
Prophet TI Joshua and I think she sees
this as an opportunity for her to take a
Revenge maybe because of what might have
happened long ago that you and I don't
know T Joshua asked me to find virgins
for him to bring young girls into
disciple
[Applause]
[Music]
fold in the midnight this person will be
called into his bedroom so that he could
disend
them when those girls come out he
usually take all the bed sheet and
everything he packed them and take them
to the prayer Mountain this lady claimed
to be a raped victim and she called
herself Tibi Joshua's daughter which
everybody is already you know saying all
around social media everywhere carrying
the rumors carrying the news that a is
Prophet TI Joshua's daughter and people
are now believing that all she has said
concerning the prophet because they said
since now the prophet begin so anything
the P can't talk now truth and this has
made a lot of Nigerians believed her so
much without even investigating anything
but this man here has come out to say so
many things about a Jo he actually
revealed so many things and he went
ahead to say a was never a biological
daughter of prophet Tibi Joshua you see
I would like you guys to listen to what
he said about this girl a please take
this for
records a was never a biological
daughter of prophet TI Joshua the
prophet has only three biological
daughters and the whole world know them
a was a few days old
baby abandoned under a truck around the
church premises by her carlous
mother the prophet picked her up and
reported the case to the police and
rather than sending her to the orphanage
home he chose to Father her despite
adopting her as his own daughter and
giving her all the fatherly love and
care and this little girl was growing up
to the admiration of everyone and
suddenly became utterly rebellious to
the point that everyone became fed up of
her and one day she
left all her records are in the scan
archives female Bankers sent a s to Evan
in Lago State a 32-year-old female
marketing employee at a bank inun Lego
State committed Su Side by drinking ins
side within the bank premises on Monday
she took a in the restroom unnoticed by
colleagues the discovery was made when
her phone kept ringing and she was not
present to answer she was found de with
a Sude note blaming the challenging
economy for a decision the note
expressed her apologies to family
members the bank manager reported the
incident to the police who confirmed and
initiated an investigation the body was
deposited at a kurun general hospital
for autopsy for the fact the economy is
not going fine it's not enough reason
for you to do this to yourself because
this lady will actually you know hurt
her family her friends around her
they're going to miss her
honestly I keep saying this no matter
what you are passing through in life no
matter what you are facing there is
still way to fix things out I know it's
not going to be easy but there is still
way to fix things out first of all you
have sin against nature you have sin
against Jesus you have sin against so
many things you have sin against
everything for you to do this to
yourself I really don't know what the
problem may be but at least you already
a banker you've secured a job in the
bank at least with the salary you be
managing it forget about the situation
of the country forget about what U is
taking our eyes to see forget about
anything just keep managing keep
striving at the end of the day you see
that there is light at the end of the
tunnel for you because doing this to
yourself you you you definitely going to
lose everything you're going to lose
everything and you're going to ur
everybody around you talk to people
people whenever you find yourself in
this kind of situation talk to people
pour your hearts to people they will
understand what you are passing through
they may not help you but at least you
have relieved yourself from all this
depression I keep saying it no matter
what you are passing through in life you
know what this girl did to herself is
not the option it's never the option
well may IO rest in peace I pray God
give the family the fortitude to bear
this
loss
[Music]
