foreign
[Music]
welcome back to another video with
swagelhaus as you guys can see I am in
my car because we are about to head over
to see a collection a comic book
collection that I'm actually thinking
about buying a little quick Preamble of
how I got into it uh you know I got a
message on Instagram of a guy local to
Los Angeles who said he had a fantastic
four collection and was looking for
buyers uh and he asked me if I happen to
know anybody and I mentioned that I
might be interested so I'm gonna go out
to his place and I'm gonna go check out
the collection take you guys with me see
if it's something that we can make
happen I'll probably just flash cut to
us already looking at the collection
because uh you know it's it's a little
bit of a drive about 40 minutes or so
especially in this Los Angeles traffic
so hopefully this works out I guess I'll
say like comment subscribe and uh come
on with me on the journey and let's see
if uh this is something that we decide
to pick up
thank you
foreign
[Applause]
all right guys there we see it loaded it
up six short boxes all of Fantastic Four
Comics uh ended up working out we made
the deal happen so excited to get this
back to my place let's take a look at
some of the books and see some of the
cool issues that we're able to pick up
we made it back to my place I just
unloaded the car got the entire
collection set up right here on the
dining room table didn't actually have
enough space in my office you know
because I don't normally buy a
collection like this but I've been just
kind of getting things a little bit
organized trying to familiarize myself
with everything in fact have you guys
ever been to this part of my house I
don't think so right it's my house by
the way let me see here I'm going to I
wanted to show you guys a few things
that I thought was pretty interesting
actually let me do a little let me do a
little movie Magic edit so I can flip
the camera around okay this is much
better all right so we got the entire
run starting at 13 right here I probably
pulled out a lot of the key stuff
um already you know in some of my behind
the scenes video when I was over there
uh but I but I figured that I would do a
vo I didn't really want to know or
didn't know how I wanted to kind of put
the video together so I just kind of
thought maybe I'll just uh film some
stuff you know for you guys right here
but you know very cool book right here
first appearance of The Watcher first
appearance of the Red Ghost as well I
mean granted some of the stuff it was
you know fairly low grade I think I got
a good deal but like you know when
you're looking at stuff like this you
really have to inspect you have to know
what you're buying because depending on
the grade it could be you know
drastically different in the value of
the collection so this you can see right
here a lot of these books while they
present nice
um you can see that this right here it
does have a detached cover so you know
that's going to hurt the value of this
pretty significantly a lot of cool you
know run books like this uh well I guess
you know if you think that this is a
cool book I know a lot of people meme on
this cover but you know maybe there's
some Speedo fans out there got a
Fantastic Four mad thinker this is a
cool book in my opinion this is one that
I think is uh kind of a cool spec you
know not a cheap book by any means but
the Mad thinker uh definitely an
interesting FF villain if you're into
him you've got fourth parents of Dr Doom
right here another cool book I think
fourth appearance of Ant-Man as well so
you have a double fourth appearance book
but again I think this is one yeah I
didn't expect inspection and I believe
the cover is also detached with this one
so while not everything is completely
low grade like I think this right here
was like a three five
um he he mentioned that he happened to
have this already in a slab uh but
cracked it out because he he preferred
his his books raw but uh yeah first
appearance of super scroll a book that
uh I've always wanted to own but uh
never actually got around to picking it
up for myself uh but definitely a very
cool book you know maybe we're gonna see
him later on when we get to uh secret
Invasion uh just a bit more Fantastic
Four covers you know first Rama Tut
obviously first molecule man this one is
actually in pretty pretty decent shape
uh so this is definitely one that I
think uh might have some people who
would be interested in a book like this
but uh molecule man definitely a
character that a lot of people think
could be you know significant to uh the
secret War storyline
a lot of just these you know fill books
and things like that uh you know infant
terrible again you know when you're
looking at this collection trying to
price it out you got to really just
focus on what are the key issues valued
at you know what are you going to get
for them like what you know how do you
determine the liquid value of the
collection uh you know here you can see
that while this is a cool book right
ff25 first I guess solo battle between
Hulk and thing you know you're missing a
chip here uh there might be some Staples
detached and stuff so hard to know right
like you're not gonna have time to check
every single book uh so you have to kind
of just pick out the big Keys determine
what the grades are and then make a
judgment call from there this is a cool
book I think it's kind of uh not talked
about a lot fantastic 426 this is uh the
first meeting I believe of the Avengers
and the Fantastic Four and actually this
is the first time that they're all on
the cover together you know that's kind
of a a cool little tidbit Avengers 5 is
the first time in The Avengers title
that all the prime Avengers are on a
cover together but that is right there
technically their first cover then you
have another book like this first uh
X-Men in Fantastic Four or maybe this is
their first meeting as well I can't
remember off the top of my head but ff28
so a lot of cool books like this
that uh you know they're not Mega keys
but they're definitely uh cool cool
books to have this is the first cover
appearance of Doctor Strange
ff27 of course he makes his first
appearance in Strange Tales 110 but it
wouldn't be until this issue where they
would actually put Doctor Strange on the
cover so this makes this book definitely
pretty cool of course you have the whole
section
this uh what I call the inhuman Silver
Surfer section where you got uh first
appearance in humans I think that this
book is interesting and cool simply due
to the fact that this is the first
appearance of Crystal I think crystal is
the most compelling character
of the Inhumans uh roster you know we
always talk about what character is
likely to show up in the MCU what
character has a cosplay material written
all over them uh but I think that
Crystal is or what makes that look cool
is Crystal ff46 right here first Black
Bolt we all know this book I mean not a
tremendous amount of value especially
since it's a low grade and he's got a
Tony Stark beard going on somebody
penciled on that so that's gonna hurt
some of the value for that book but
again you know a lot of cool books right
here then again this one fantastic 440
obviously the big money book of The
Collection the only problem is is that
uh I was inspecting this one and
actually there was a little piece cut
out uh kind of in the one of the ad
pages so uh this probably would get a
qualified grade so that is something you
got to look at you know you got to
inspect the big books like the f-48
inspect the 50. know what you're getting
with these uh this one actually turned
out to be a decent copy
another great book right here Fantastic
Four this man this monster 51 one of the
great story lines second black panther I
might have already said this but uh yeah
he didn't have 49 and he didn't have uh
52 in the collection another cool Silver
Surfer cover it's just generally pretty
desirable
and then like you know other cool books
in here in the Run here's like 72 a lot
of people like this book actually I
think that this is
this might be one of my favorite Silver
Surfer covers I know Silver Surfer has a
ton of great covers
but this Kirby cover might be
might be uh top three what do you guys
think top top two top three top five uh
you got you know the Cocoon books right
here but again these are reader copies
got a daredevil appearance which is
always cool this is a popular book
people just like it for the Kirby cover
uh you got more curvy covers with
Galactus things those are the first
blast star in there somewhere I probably
already passed it I think you have some
late Doom covers people like these Doom
covers and then you kind of start to
approach uh I get the Harkness territory
right 94 and then I think I might have
shown this in some of the digging
sections I had uh he had a lot of these
kind of early annuals right so we have
uh this one right here Submariner uh
storyline origin I think first Dorma I
believe is who it is you got this uh
origin of Doom right here again another
book that kind of has a little bit of a
spine split situation going on I think
the cover right there is split as well
so while it is cool to have a lot of
these books
and while I think you know I think the
price was fair you know a lot of this
stuff is generally speaking lower grade
so uh you know how desirable are they
really going to be this is another cool
book right here first appearance of
Psycho Man cycleman pretty random
character a random villain and then
Fantastic Four six we've been talking
about this book first appearance of
annihilus another character that is uh
gotten pretty hot coming off the heels
of Guardians of the Galaxy so all cool
to see those books of course you guys
are familiar with the Silver age stuff
uh but what's what's really cool is you
know there's a lot of books in FF that
you know they don't have a tremendous
amount of value once you get outside the
Silver age stuff but there are some cool
Keys like this right here first air
Walker second air Walker you got the
Heralds of Galactus those characters uh
you know I'm sure
pretty popular getting more popular
because of the fact that uh you know uh
we all know Galactus is coming you got
this one right here in the back uh this
one has been hot Fantastic Four Two
Eleven first appearance of terrax right
you know everybody knows terrax or Terex
was kind of announced soft announced and
then you have some other interesting
stuff this is this is cool to me when
you get to around this section you start
to get to the John burn run this right
here FF 232 if I'm not mistaken I
believe this is the first issue that was
done by John Byrne and while these books
are not particularly valuable this I
would say generally speaking is the you
know the the creme de La Creme of a
Fantastic Four storytelling this is what
everybody celebrates is when John Byrne
uh started to take this to the next
level I think there are a few key issues
that uh people just like because of the
uh right here this one right here the
Fantastic Four 243 this is just that
great Galactus appearance or Galactus
cover by John Byrne just a book that
people really like you got first parents
of Frankie Ray as Nova so this is
another Herald of Galactus situation
this this version of Nova actually is is
the one of the Heralds that I tend to
think of when I think of Heralds because
uh uh the uh I think back to Silver
Surfer the Steve engelhardt run and Nova
was you know significant in that you
have other little minor Keys like this
one you know some Franklin Richard stuff
what also is cool is just some of the
stuff you know again you've seen these
covers many times before for but you
know it's hard to get an appreciation
for them until you see them in person
you know even just this ff256 this is
just a cool annihilus cover
you know kind of has the infinity thing
going on
and actually you know a lot of the stuff
is in okay shape it's not it's not in
bad shape generally speaking uh this is
another cool one just Galactus and death
just a cool cover again to the later one
I think this had some keys in here uh
maybe just a few let's see you can pull
out this one always brings back the
member berries the new Fantastic Four
this is like the look at this this is
you know they're bringing the ringers
right here for this team
awesome Fantastic Four team that is
definitely takes me back to uh when I
started collecting this right here you
know got the first Mobius and Mobius
there you see him right there a book
that has fallen off tremendously but uh
you know has kind of come back a little
bit or starting to come back you got
this one right here this has been a
pretty popular spec for a little while
first appearance of one of the uh I
think the Scrolls maybe in the Marvels
movie
and then you have some other stuff you
have more of the giant size Fantastic
Four first Tempest
you got uh multiple man right here I
think this is kind of an underrated book
uh Tommy madrix first parents of
Multiple Man giant size Fantastic Four
number four
so you got some cool stuff in there and
then I've been kind of organizing this
which I think is interesting if you guys
know this FF 570 this is the start of
the Jonathan Hickman run so I'd say
outside of John Byrne I think that the
Hickman run is probably the second most
celebrated uh Fantastic Four written
storyline I might hold on to some of the
stuff just to kind of read it myself
because I'm I'm sort of interested in
the story then I got this one right here
this is the entire Mark Wade section you
got a section like this this is just the
Civil War you know section he he was a
huge Fantastic Four fan I mean he just
everything Fantastic Four even all the
way up until uh what you can see right
here like the even the Dan slot stuff
right the current volume of Fantastic
Four so he even had all of that stuff
covered as well and a lot of this other
stuff fantastic for you know more of the
modern stuff
um you have like when Jim even Jim Lee
was writing on the series Mark Millar
was writing on the series so again a lot
of cool books a lot of cool stuff gotta
process all this got to figure out how
to kind of offset some of the costs
gotta inspect everything make sure that
there's no coupons cut and things of
that nature but uh there you see it
right there almost an entire run of FF
well I hope you guys enjoyed that
footage of me picking up the collection
I want you to sort of end the video here
in our normal setup to talk a little bit
about the experience uh talk about what
I actually ended up paying for the
collection and then also sort of recap
in case you guys ever find yourselves in
a similar situation now this again was
one uh collection that sort of fell into
my lap so to speak as I mentioned here
on the channel it's not that I'm against
buying collections it's just that you
know I I'm not actively hunting them uh
because of the amount of work that I
know that goes into it for having to
sort of uh sell the collections and
offset it and all the inventory you're
kind of left with uh you know how long
you have to sit and sit on certain
things but this was a certain situation
where it's like this guy reached out to
me uh it was local to my area which made
the drive like pretty easy it was all
you know FF it was organized everything
was already bagged and boarded which you
know that's a whole other thing if
you're picking up collections that you
know you just need to you know pull out
of like milk crates and stuff and bag
and board everything I mean that's
another cost that you have to think
about in terms of like you know selling
all those books and stuff so this was a
situation that it just made sense for me
to do it uh when I got over there he was
a super nice guys you know we had a
great conversation uh he was telling me
about you know his love for Fantastic
Four this is actually the second time he
has sold his Fantastic Four collection
he he mentioned that he put together a
run uh years ago ended up selling that
one put another run together which is
the one that I got and it you know sold
it to me and even mentioned like you
know at some point in the future he
thinks that he'll probably put together
another FF run so kind of like a sport
fishing situation for him he just kind
of felt like it was time to let go of
this one and uh you know start again so
when I got over there I pulled out all
the major Keys uh ff48s things like that
and I just spent the time to inspect
everything just to understand what the
grades were obviously going into meeting
him I had an idea in my mind of what I
thought these major your books were
worth you know just pricing it off of
other you know eBay and other sales
pages and thinking okay what is the
floor value for a lot of these books in
terms of like the grades that you know
they actually are so I put those numbers
together in my mind and then eventually
when I discovered that the ff48 uh
although it is a very very nice
presenting copy
um I would say that this probably would
grade out to be maybe a 5-0 maybe a five
five uh you know a 6-0 if you were a uh
somebody who was a grader who was having
a really really good day but probably
more like a 5-0 or 5'5 but it did have a
little coupon cut in the ad page so
obviously that hurts the value uh and
when when I saw that I was like okay the
bulk of the money of this collection uh
is probably you know hurt by that but
after going back and forth with
everything I ended up buying the
collection for thirty three hundred
dollars which I thought was a pretty
good price overall uh obviously with
numbers like that I'll probably offload
a decent amount of the collection just
to kind of help cover the cost I might
hang on to some things if I can some of
the other stuff like you know a lot of
that Bronze Age stuff you know as great
as the John Burton run is there's not
much value in that so I kind of think to
myself you know I might just keep this
just to enjoy it just to read it or you
know if there's people out there that
are interested in picking up you know
large story sections of an unbroken run
I'll definitely let go of those things
as well so that was kind of my
experience with the collection again a
lot of cool books really really cool to
flip through a lot of the FF books uh
you know and then there's some other
cool Keys which I didn't show you guys
but you guys know you know some of these
books are here ff112 obviously the cool
Hulk and thing covers and things like
that but again a lot of cool stuff a lot
of cool books probably end up moving
some of these you know as cool as they
are but you know you got to offset the
cost but that was my Fantastic Four
collection another fantastic collection
being sold in the year of 2023 mine is
probably not as valuable as the one that
cgc created a custom label for but I am
still happy that I bought it anyways
that's all I got let me know what you
guys think drop me a like comment
subscribe if you're enjoying the content
See you on the next video
