they are the handheld to take anywhere
books filled with superheroes classic
stories or adult dramas some of them
originally sold for only ten cents but
now go for millions with stunning
artwork and legendary storytelling their
pages have captivated readers for over
80 years
[Music]
this is the history
of comic books
using images to communicate goes back to
the 32nd century BC when Egyptians
devised hieroglyphs with over a thousand
images representing ideas in the same
way tapestries told stories through
scenes depicted on the lush textiles in
medieval European times mass production
of paper allowed for the next medium of
sequential art to emerge while printed
forms of picture based stories appeared
in Europe prior the first American
example of a comic strip came in the
form of the yellow kid the kid's creator
Richard alcohol-infused the comic with
political and social commentary due to
the popularity of the yellow kid other
comic strips soon appeared in 1933
famous funnies collected some of the
serialized newspaper strips into a book
format although this collection included
reprinting x' many historians have
deemed this publication as the first
comic book in 1938 the Golden Age of
comic books began with Action Comics
number one this first appearance of
Superman assured in the cape and cowl
popularity of the superhero the golden
age would give birth to many of today's
beloved heroes including Batman Wonder
Woman Green Lantern Captain America and
Captain Marvel many of the heroes grew
so popular that they became symbolic
elements in the war effort in world war
ii and comic covers often depicted
heroes beating up hitler not all comics
featured heroes though many of the
horror comics such as eces vault of
horror drew in readers who wanted their
comics Mordor
KOB the taboo breaking storylines and
shocking artwork garnered too much
attention
psychiatrist Frederic wertham filed a
study called seduction of the innocent
where he claimed comic books to be a
source corrupting the youthful readers a
Senate subcommittee investigated in the
comic industry self-imposed
a set of codes and laws to keep comics
upbeat and morally positive in 1956
showcase number four introduced the
world to a new version of a DC comic
favorite the flash
thus the Silver Age of comics began
during this time Stan Lee and Jack Kirby
at Marvel Comics would create some of
the most beloved heroes including
spider-man the Fantastic Four and The
Incredible Hulk by the 1970s the
counterculture popularity no longer
wanted clean-cut heroes an underground
movement of comics rose and artists like
our Crum published adult themed comics
in small presses since the use of the
comics code was optional the underground
movement needed no permission and they
had no limitations on their subject
matters by the 1980s the modern era of
comics saw the big to publishers going
head to head Marvel and DC while they
battled for top billing their characters
appeared on television primetime and
Saturday morning cartoons in smaller
presses like Pacific Eclipse and
Fantagraphics slowly entered into the
market
the graphic novel also rose in
popularity during the 80s these longer
works sometimes are printed comic story
arcs of many featured original unseen
material this longer form allowed for
more in-depth storytelling and the
dramatic content often when literary
awards when the 1990s hit the comic book
artists grew in celebrity status their
popularity allowed them something hardly
seen in the industry a split from the
big two publishers Todd McFarlane Jim
Lee Rob Liefeld and Jim Valentino formed
their own company image and rocked the
comic book world events like the death
of Superman brought comics into the
public eye like never before with the
comic codes an outdated form of
censorship publishers abandoned its use
as digital readers became more prevalent
the comic book took new shape in digital
form
with comic book character so
identifiable so many of the comic books
we read are made into film popular shows
like The Walking Dead also use comic
books as their source material and so
there's no question that the comic book
industry entered a new high point in its
history so the next time you grab your
favorite issue or graphic novel
appreciate how far comic books have come
since the concept of sequential art
began back in ancient Egypt if you
enjoyed this video then you may enjoy
some of our other historical tales and
if you really like this video please
consider subscribing to this channel
than becoming a part of history
[Music]
