day before the house sale let's show you
what the Mayhem looks like as you can
see it is pretty messy in here just got
a new collection so we're trying to go
through everything so right now this is
what it's looking like yeah this
collection has been a lot of fun though
I
recently just got into India I guess
because this is what this is full of but
I'll show everybody what we've been
getting we got into it for a really good
price so we'll show you kind of some
things that we've been finding we got
some dark claw and I got those last
night this one actually is pretty
expensive not pretty expensive but being
as though I got all the books for like
20 cents this is like a $10 book Lobo
deck yeah so we're into everything for
around 20 cents so any of these are
definitely a nice profit trying to get
some new books that we could put on the
wall we got the Green Lantern rebirth we
actually have found some cool first
appearances in this um we found what was
that first appearance that we just found
is that one in here or is it somewhere
else um we found a really is it under
there yeah see look at that I was going
through this box though this is where
they were in it was just sitting in this
box right here just with no uh yeah no
bag in board yeah it was just kind of
sitting in here it's a whole like Indie
box so I went through all these and I'm
going to put these out for the house
sale and let everybody just have fun but
this right here is um where is it did I
put it oh it should be in there maybe
this one is the first um I forgot her
name Jessica Cruz I think it is it's
that thicker oversized issue Green
Lantern 20 really nice copy too that's
just a really cool Jay Le cover with the
Avengers free comic book day but when
you find stuff like this in these
collections you get excited like this is
the first appearance of the manga
Wolverine like manga X-Men first
appearance Spider-Man movie adaptation
from Toby Maguire so it's pretty cool
finding this stuff that's Todd McFarland
on Hell cop number one grifter final
issue this is um Michael Turner first
interior or no this is Michael Turner
first cover that's what it is amazing
Spider-Man Fun cover so what I've been
doing is just going through the
collection and putting aside all the
books that I think are worth some money
like this one right here is the first
appearance of the new Ronin this is the
variant cover on 27 from the Coliseum of
Comics we have Secret Wars number eight
variant their secret Wars number eight
the uh I I don't know who did that cover
that's a really nice variant cover there
there's another one with star on number
six fun Daredevil cover David Mac on
Wolverine some nice Deadpools in here
you have issue 900 trying to save all my
Deadpool books I can getting in
preparation for the uh the show coming
up that's Dracula's Gauntlet number one
lield with a floating head I got some
really cool life Feld covers in here and
surprisingly a lot of these books are
really nice shape being as though they
were like not really kept well oh here
it is there it is yeah look at this
thing though it's really nice for like
it was just sitting in here it was
literally just sitting inside of this
box over here so first Blue Beetle and
it's actually a pretty nice copy so
that's pretty exciting cuz that's you
know a few hundred like maybe raw 150
200 a really solid copy I think this is
probably like a I want to say at least a
40 and the Blue Beetle there is
hopefully we'll find some more books
like that I mean we still have all of
this to go through from The Collection
as well as this down here right you
haven't gone through this yet either
it's all of this down here still I have
to go through it's all of this over here
and then all of this right down here we
have all that too so definitely a big
collection that we got so we actually
got it what like 3 4 days before the
house sale yeah well that's what's the
whole reason why we bought it is it
Sarah found this it's early in the
morning here so don't make fun of the
way I look one my shs and my little
Santa t-shirt or long steeve shirt here
but Sarah found the listing on what was
it offer up right yeah it was on offer
up yeah so you always got to look look
on different platforms I always usually
go to Facebook Marketplace first but
Sarah has luck on offer up sometimes too
so she went on offer up and found this
huge collection and the guy needed to
sell it because it was in his parents
house well he lives in his parents house
and it was taking up an entire bedroom
in the house and I guess he um he
didn't I guess the way I should phrase
it is he wasn't able to sell it as
easily as he thought he was so he bought
it I think he said back in um like
November oh wow or something so he's had
it for a while but he never went through
it because he got a new job and they've
been he's been working a lot and um he
planned on selling a lot of it on eBay
we have pretty much 24 hours to clean
this place up so it'll be pretty cool
though cuz you guys will see like what
it looked like 24 hours before and then
uh what it's going to look like
afterwards so this is literally the only
wall that's done so far yeah well the
other thing we're get it together the
thing that's scary to me is it's pretty
much a dollar sale and like a fill a
short box sale for 80 bucks right which
is a 50 Cent sale but the I'm I'm kind
of nervous to put out the key issues on
the tables because there's really no
space and there's so many dollar books
and that's how someone stole from us
last time is I uh I had pre-priced stuff
on the table with like short boxes that
they could just fill up with 50 Cent
inventory and they snuck a pre-priced
book in there I think the only
pre-priced Comics we're going to have is
what we're able to fill on the wall that
might be a huge mistake I don't know
because obviously you can see there's
really not that much stuff in here and I
have so many Comics it's kind of hard to
choose what you want to put up I got
variants first appearances and it's not
even talking about the silverage I mean
I started going through it yesterday and
yeah we put some up here some of the
Silver age we're trying to I'm trying to
do like a silver age section over here I
guess and then the other walls more
modern books but we still have all these
books that we're going to have to put
out so just kind of going through the
boxes seeing what we want to put on the
walls cuz like Angelo said it's only
going to be what's on the walls this
time around since both rooms are filled
with dollar books
one in 25
variant on the
Batman I got like Punisher number
one agents of Atlas was in there I have
uh villains for higher number one but
then there's also the Captain
America oh and then these right here
I've never even
um seen these before these uh Max issues
that's issue 30 oh and then the Mayhem
this thing is sick I forgot I found this
the only reason I recognized it was
because of um Tony actually found one so
I got one of those now first appearance
of manga X-Men I got a couple of those
this is actually the first appearance of
Terminator Max really low print run
stuff I actually have the final issue in
here somewhere I just don't know where
it is I got another one of
these of alien oh here it is issue 35
really clean copy
but I'm pretty happy finding this stuff
because there wasn't supposed to be
anything in the
collection so it's definitely been a fun
little one but let me show you guys what
I just found all right the house is
looking like a mess but this is the C
before the storm right I guess the storm
already came but it is looking like a
mess the office is definitely looking
way messier than it should be the house
sale is in less than 24 hours but look
what I just found in this collection
ction I was going through the boxes I
only have two more left down there to go
through and then the entire 65 longer
box collection will have been pretty
much um gone through because I'm just
organizing stuff that's $10 and under
right now I'm trying to get ready for
the house sale but look what I just
found Invincible Iron Man issue 9 first
appearance of Riri the variant I don't
think they knew what it was because it
was the variant cover there's so many
cool books in this collection this is
another box of some
fun number ones that I've been finding
and just books that I'm kind of putting
to the
side that I think are uh you know worth
re bagging and boarding like some cyber
frog it's pretty cool cyblade cyber
force got Young Blood this thing's
actually really hard to find it's a um
Steven plat cover this thing's really
cool too the Silver Surfer Ghost Rider
with the wh blade got the COA with it
pit there's a low print run pit in here
too I didn't realize got the foil cover
on Jim Lee Divine W yeah here it is
right here this thing is low print run I
guess and then look what else I found
first appearance of Apollo and
midnighter on storm watch number four so
I mean I'm just finding all kinds of
cool stuff in this collection I
definitely have to uh go through slow
though because I don't know everything
I'm looking at like this for example
this is variant
McFarland and Mark sylvestri you have a
fun Iron Man cover found the J Scott
Campbell look at this too this is pretty
sick four I think that's the uh second
print yeah second print solil cover
variant J Scott Campbell fright Knight
Tomb Raider Hulk oh I found this too
Batman and The Outsiders number
one Justice League a whole bag of these
look at this
a whole entire bag there's probably like
10 or 12 of them inside of this thing I
found
Spider-Man with the
Venom try to get the glare off of there
Sonic the
Hedgehog
vampy Adam Hughes good morning everyone
it's the morning of the house sale we
have about an hour until go time pretty
much everything is set up we have all
the comics out on the tables the wall
has been completed so we finished it a
little bit last night as well as this
morning so we got everything set up
we're pretty excited hopefully we have a
good turnout today it'll be interesting
to see who comes cuz it is December so I
don't know if the holidays if we'll have
more people or less people but we're
pretty excited and yeah we only have an
hour left so we'll give you a look
around the room it's pretty festive in
here we haven't plugged the lights in
yet but we did hang up some Christmas
lights to make it a little fun and
festive we got a little Christmas tree
over there in the corner so keeping it
nice and jolly but let's go and plug in
the lights and let's see what it looks
like I actually really do like how it
looks with all the lights I think it
looks cute I kind of want to just like
leave them up for all the house sales I
know we kind of made the decision last
minute to kind of put them up brightens
up the room and then yeah it does add
some light I did this wall too it was
very hard figuring out what to put on
the wall I decided last minute kind of
just to go with a bunch of Silver age
and first appearances and then we did
pick some variants that I thought were
nicer that people would be interested in
but for the most part it's all just
Silver age first appearances did add
racks to this whole wall behind Angelo
so that one did not have racks in the
last sale but we decided since we
weren't going to have a whole room of
pre-priced stuff that we could get some
more wall space so we could display a
good amount of books so it'll be
interesting to see you know like how
much we sell or how many pre-priced
books we sell since we don't have that
many out in boxes anymore but personally
I feel like stuff kind of sells better
on the wall anyways cuz then everyone
can see it and they don't really have to
like dig to find stuff so we'll see how
it goes yeah and I purposefully
kind of stacked a lot of the books on
top of the prices that I previously had
because honestly a lot of the prices are
not correct and it's whatever you want
to offer me you know we're going to have
a really fun day today it's right before
the holidays I got some really cool
stuff up here too like the Flaming
carrot number one first print we got a
first print on the last Ronin and then
over here this is pretty interesting the
uh first appearance of um strong guy but
then this is from the upper deck um
anime box that we did we unboxed it and
this was the hit the wood card of
strongman so if someone wants they can
get the first appearance of strong man
with the wood card from the Marvel anime
Volume 2 box and just a lot of fun stuff
some vigilante this is a book I found in
the recent collection we picked up we
reaged them board them and we got them
up here so we got the Invincible Iron
Man the variant of the first Riri
Williams we also have stormat 4 another
first appearance we have the max I
believe it's issue 35 that one is a low
print run so we found some really cool
stuff in this collection also the Mayhem
book that one's actually really
interesting that's the first appearance
of the Mask which is really cool and
then we also have the first Terminator
up there the first Blue Beetle so the
collection that we got actually had some
really cool keys and luckily we were
into it low enough that we could have
made profit if everything was a dollar
book so it's really cool being able to
find some keys and add some new stuff to
the wall from The Collection all right
so we got I think like an hour left so
this is usually when me and Angelo just
like pace around and wait for the first
person to get here but everything is set
up we're ready to go and we have all of
our extra boxes over here so we're doing
a little bit of a different deal than we
did last time last time we still did a
short box for $80 but now we're doing a
long box for $100 so that's a pretty
crazy deal but it'll be interesting to
see if anyone actually gets the long box
cuz I feel like that's a lot of comics
it seems to be a lot of people's problem
too is the space exactly yeah like the
space or like you know finding a whole
long box of things that they enjoy so I
don't know if collectors usually get
like a whole long box I know us as
reseller like a long box isn't that much
but you know to someone it might be so
it'll be interesting to see we're going
to try it out so this other room now is
all dollar books as well so we have what
like five tables in here there is a good
amount of books we were actually able to
fit in here so luckily there's you know
thousands more books in here we tried to
lighten it up a little bit open up the
window we don't have the rack over there
anymore with any pre-priced books but it
definitely is a lot more Spacey you know
for everyone to go through everything so
everyone's not shoulder shoulder so
hopefully everyone will enjoy it I mean
we do have some really cool books in
here there's a lot of variety Marvel DC
you got some Xmen and most of it is in
really nice bags and Boards there are a
few boxes that have unbagged and boarded
things but I mean if you get a short box
or a long box deal you're getting
everything for like0 50 so got some Star
Wars Aquaman xforce and even the stuff
that's non- bagged and boarded you can
fit like a lot of books in a short or a
long box Dr Str R that's a cool Scarlet
Witch cover some victories let's see
what we got on this one special
Hawkman
Elementals oh that's a cool galatis
cover some Fantastic Four Dr Doom cover
another thing that we did which is a
little different you can't really see it
too well we probably should have put a
little light up here or something but is
the cards we got the cards completely
displayed I have to be honest I'm not a
huge fan of this display case just
because it's not super secure to the
wall I had to kind of put the this
little lever at the top to kind of stick
it down to the wall and these things are
really wobbly inside there's no um
there's no thing keeping them like
leaned back so this isn't the best it's
cheap on Amazon that's where I found it
but uh yeah it'll do for now but this is
the cards I don't have any of them
priced up we're going to be doing it on
the fly so we're pretty much just going
off of last sold it's what is it I think
it's 10 over 120 long boxes yeah it's
over 100 long boxes and we have even
more that we still kind of got to go
through and filter and some stuff we
need to add for pre-priced books the the
problem is you really can't put
everything out cuz there's just not
enough room I was going to organize
these by Marvel and DC I wasn't going to
go crazy and alphabetize it but I was
going to organize them by Marvel and DC
and the last minute I kind of decided
not to because I find that the last
couple sales we had a lot of people were
looking through and they would be like
looking for something specific they had
on their list and then all of a sudden
they would see something and they'll go
back and they'll grab it you know like
right here I got Old Man Logan and then
on the next page you got John
burn um Superman you know so you can
pick these books up for 40 cents and
then over here you got Venom you know
what I mean Venom number four so Venom
number two Punisher War Journal issue
76 and then you got th you know some
Modern Thor and then we're back to
Superman 604 you know so I figured that
was the best way to do it and like I
said the wall books we repriced a lot of
this stuff especially these higher price
Keys up here you can see I brought out
my first Craven my first Kingpin we got
the Constantine up there the Wolverine
the first appearance of Harley it's a
lot of money buying these racks I think
we have over $300 in racks on the walls
right now but it really is um a good way
to display some of your books you know
as opposed to just having nothing on the
wall or or putting shelves up or
something I feel like this is a way way
nicer way of doing it especially if you
have way more expensive stuff I don't
really have super expensive stuff a lot
of my keys and variants range anywhere
from like $20 to like the most expensive
book might be like 500 to 1,000 bucks
you know it's not like you're going to
find any crazy keys at my sale but I
definitely going to be cutting deals
today I'm interested to see how many
people show up because it's Christmas is
right around the corner and I don't
think too many people rsvpd so it'll be
interesting but it's going to be a fun
day we're doing $100 a long box which is
pretty awesome and yeah we'll see how
many boxes were left at the end of the
day I figured we could do like a box to
put everyone's pre-priced books in if
they're still looking around because as
you know we've had people steal stuff
before by throwing it into the boxes so
I thought this would be kind of like a
safer way to like okay you have a few
things off the wall let's put them in
this box while you keep looking at the
dollar boxes and then we'll just have
everyone's name on there and you know
keep it organized and simple I sold a
lot of the uh short boxes at the last
couple sales so we do have the long
boxes over here but we're going to be
using this one as like a like a
measuring unit so if someone has a bunch
of Bo or a bunch of books and they want
to get just the short box we'll just put
them in here and be like okay that's a
short box worth you know $80 and we'll
do it like that so this will be our
handy dandy short box I was going to put
these inside of all these
boxes but um I think what I'm going to
do is just give them away throughout the
day it's just a bunch of cool books that
I thought would be fun you know a little
extra dollar
books so instead of putting them inside
of the boxes and letting people oh this
was a fun one it's got a little terar
right there this still a cool book I
think what I'm going to do is actually
get one of those like Square tables
maybe and put it right here so then I
can put like the measuring short box on
there and then this short box for
people's um pre-priced books cuz we do
kind of have this area like you know
there's nothing over here so I'm going
to get one of the square little tables
put some out there if anyone gets
thirsty all right got the fanny pack I
think we got our Square in here usually
I feel like we have more time but
everything went by really fast this
morning so there's only 30 minutes
there's nobody out by the gate yet so
we'll see honestly we kind of expect it
to be a little slower today just because
not a lot of people are svpd and with it
being the holidays and stuff I think a
lot of people do travel or they're
saving up money for the holidays so but
I think it should be pretty chill you
know nice fun day 9: to 3 hang out have
some fun and sell some Comics all right
there's a few people here so we're going
to go ahead and open the gate so we can
let them Park oh I totally forgot about
my car oh you forgot about your car move
it or just leave it all right let's open
the gate and then got move the car I'll
move it oh four
people I wasn't expecting so many people
yeah me either I don't have anything
special for the giveaway today but I
figure we'll just let them pick out of
those giveaway boxes yeah just pick some
fre get some free stuff yeah get some
free stuff thank them for coming early
hi you guys can go ahead and go in you
can park anywhere on the property and
then we'll open the it's in the sideous
and we'll open the door at 9:00 thanks
to meet you man thanks for coming
by hello hi Sarah hey what's going on
good to see you guys
yeah hello how are you hey what's going
on Dan hey it's good to see you hey
what's up guys great to see you you can
head on in and park okay yeah feel free
to park anywhere guys Hi how are you
good good how are you doing good you can
the property and then we'll open the
side door um in the side house at 9:00
perfect so down the driveway you can
yeah on the driveway in the grass
wherever wherever you can fit it's good
just make sure you don't hit any trees
or
anything cool I think it's more people
than ever have been here at 9:00 dang we
might have promoted too well I know we
did too good no I hope everybody has a
good time that's always problem right is
making sure everyone has yeah that
everyone has a good time well that's
what I was going to say I feel like Word
of Mouth you know like has gotten out
that people enjoy the sale yeah this is
more people than ever we still got a few
minutes starts I think right yeah I
think we still have like 15 minutes
what's up man so good to see
you yeah let me give you guys a formal
nice to see you again Eric
see nice to see you again yeah Jeremy
nice to see you Jeremy thank you yeah I
know the bugs are going to get a little
crazy we got about 10 minutes but I
think you guys oh we still got more
people coming in wow was mad that's
awesome left I was literally complaining
about that this morning the say I was
like man it's been so cold last week and
now the day I got to do something 80°
outside all right we do have Waters and
stuff inside too I did not unfortunately
get the TV hooked up because we went out
for Black Friday and the Xboxes and
PlayStation were're not on
discount so I didn't buy one so we'll
probably get one for the next time but I
did get some more racks and uh yeah like
I said if you guys see anything on the
walls just let me know the only thing
we're kind of staying a little firm on
because I just recently repriced them is
the books that are on the top row
against the wall over here with the
white big white stickers they're the
bigger Keys like I got the first Craven
out the first Kingpin and stuff but um
we're still cutting deals on those too
so we'll be back out here in a little
bit I guess 9 minutes yeah I feel bad
cuz it's hot out I know you guys just
want to come in now we'll just let
everybody in yeah just come in now yeah
yeah yeah I was going to say just come
in now let go not nice weather we didn't
press all right so Sarah if you want if
you want actually um let's make make a
line here oh those books you guys we're
behind
Adam or we'll behind you too so whoever
was
first you can go through these three
boxes let's be look I got to be a little
quick with it though and then uh take
whatever book you want for free
okay
[Music]
n
