[Music]
hey guys Mike here from lunch money
Comics a few weeks ago I did a video
about a comic book store that was having
a huge sale coming up I vowed that I
would go back during that sale well here
I am back at comically speaking Reading
Massachusetts as you can see it's 50%
off everything let's see what good stuff
we can
find all
right
[Music]
ni
these were the ones I
wanted
right
fin
yet
[Music]
second
so you how do you do
you better not
like
[Music]
put
you
know don't want
Jedi stuff some of that is
missing
so you
[Music]
can so all the dollar books are also 50%
off so everything here is 50s I'm going
to be here for a while oh
[Music]
really
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
so I'm not the only YouTuber here
looking for Great Deals I'm with chinmo
from three men in the basement what's
going on buddy what's going on man
what's happening um I'm spending some
money same here I just checked out and
so much for Christmas shopping well
Merry Christmas it's a great place to be
yeah good to see you Budd yeah good to
see you too man take easy see
you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
all right yeah bring me up all right
guys I love this store I wish I lived a
lot closer I got a huge stack of comic
books at a pretty incredible price I
can't wait to go home and show you guys
everything that I
got so there you go guys happy holidays
I hope it's been a good one for you so
far I'm getting in the spirit of things
with my gingerbread Avengers shirt and
of course I was at the big year-end
holiday sale of comically speaking in
Reading Massachusetts I was just there a
few weeks ago I did a whole video on
them and promoted this upcoming sale I
vowed I would go back and here I was on
the first day of their 50% off
everything in the store now I had seen a
couple books when I was there last time
I was hoping I could get cheap and I
found them I got those books but because
of the sale I ended up with a lot more
than that I ended up with a pretty good
stack of comic books and I didn't even
have a chance to go downstairs to the
awesome toying collectible room if
you're into toys and collectibles
definitely check out my last video so
you can get a good look at that uh but
yeah I got a pretty awesome stack guys
the thing is with the sale I would have
already gotten these pretty cheap but
the truth is in sort of the spirit of
the holiday season I got these for even
less than that uh it's a pretty special
story I can't wait to tell you guys but
first I got to show you the books head
on down hit the like button leave me a
comment feel free to subscribe if you
haven't already and follow me on
Instagram under lunch money Comics IG
let me show you what I got at this
awesome awesome store so first up I have
some comic books that I got for $5 each
now when you walk into comically
speaking they have a box right in front
full of unbagged and boarded and not
sorted uh bronze and copper R books and
you can find some pretty good stuff in
there normally these are $10 each but
with the sale of course they were $5
each and I got four Comics I think are
pretty great so let's go through these
quick guys I have a lot of comic books
to talk about first up we have this
Sergeant Fury in his Howling Commandos
uh this is from
1965 uh Story by Stanley art by dick AES
remember that name we will talk about
him before the end of the video and I
don't really collect these comic books
however I have a friend who does his
name is Ben toss he's a comic book
artist and he's trying to finish his
dad's run I told him if I find these
cheap I'd pick them up for him and uh
Not only was this only $5 but it's
actually in really nice shape All Things
Considered so happy to pick this one up
uh next up we have three comic books
that sort of all go together um there
was a big sort of uh comic Trope going
on in the 70s where they would put women
on the covers in red dresses why did
they do this well it's pretty obvious
they were marketing these books to uh
young boys and young men I'm not really
into these types of books books but I
have some friends who absolutely are and
I figured I could get these together as
some gifts for them so first up we have
this this is Marvel team up number 24
which is Spider-Man teamed up with
brother Voodoo and they're going against
moon dog and like I said you can see
there is a damsel in distress in a red
dress now I'd never actually seen this
book before despite the fact I like
brother Voodoo uh but a good friend of
mine Jeff at Comic Spa had this at his
house I saw I said that is in fact a
great cover and when I saw it at
comically speaking had to pick it up
next up everyone loves Tuma Dracula so
we have a Tuma Dracula number 29 I have
no idea what happens in it but once
again uh Damsel in Distress in the red
dress and finally I first saw this book
on my friend uh Brandon's Channel
Brandon of course belongs to mon Comics
he's a big fan of man thing so of course
he had to show this book off man thing
number 22 once again holding a woman in
a red dress what's funny about this
comic guys there is nothing in this
story that has anything to do with this
cover it really is just something they
threw on there to try to get people to
buy it uh so yeah so these are pretty
cool I have some friends uh in mind to
share these books with uh and I got each
of these for uh $5 each but not really
again I'll explain by the end so next up
we have some dollar books I love hunting
through dollar bins guys this is lunch
money Comics after all and comically
speaking has an entire aisle full of
them they're not bagged and boarded and
they're not sorted but there's actually
some pretty good comic books in there if
you're willing to put in the time to
hunt for them and what's better than
dollar books 50 c books which is exactly
what these cost with the sale if I had
more time I could have easily filled
three or four long boxes of this stuff
also I need more room down here uh but
as it is I didn't have that much time I
just grabbed you know the first handful
of stuff I thought looked good um I want
to go through these quickly but for this
first one I need a little bit more time
because we need to take a deeper dive
into a very complicated character named
X-Man so this is X-Man number one from
1995 it takes place in the Age of
Apocalypse timeline a very popular
alternate dystopian future where
apocalypse has one and we were
introduced to lots of alternate versions
of the X-Men characters we know and love
but we were also introduced to lots of
new characters such as Nate gray now
Nate gray was created by Mr Sinister
using uh the DNA of Gan gray in Cyclops
and just like his mother he ends up
being an Omega Level mutant with uh
incredible psychic powers of telepathy
telekinesis and even some reality
warping uh a pretty cool character a
very 90s character the thing is there's
another more well-known character who is
a mutant from a dystopian future who is
a genetic uh you know offspring of Jean
Gray and cyclops and that is of course
cable so Nathan Summers cable is the son
of Cyclops in meline Prior who is the
clone of Gan gray also made by Mr
Sinister bear with me here so cable
although he's very similar to Nate gray
he has the same powers of his mother of
telekinesis and telepathy but he also
has a techno organic virus that limits
his mutant powers and because of that
although he does have those Powers he's
more known as a fighter and a brilliant
military tactician so in many ways Nate
gray who does not have that techno
organic virus represents what cable
would be if he did not have that virus
they are almost genetic clones of each
other and also Cable's also a clone of
the bad guy Strife whatever there's lots
of clones and genetic offspring of
Cyclops and Gan Gray from lots of
different timelines this just happens to
be one of them and he's the most
powerful one of all yes he made a lot of
appearances in the '90s but has also
appeared subsequent to that so pretty
cool character this is indeed his first
appearance I did not already own it it's
actually in really good shape
considering it was loose and I'm very
happy to add this for 50s the rest of
these I'm going to go through quick uh
next up we have the Marvel X-Men
collection by Jim Lee uh what this is is
a comic book companion to the X-Men
Series 1 trading cards I talk about
these cards all the time guys uh I love
them as a kid the first X-Men series was
done entirely by Jim Lee who was a
pretty big celebrity artist especially
of X-Men Comics back in the 9s and
Marvel would also release these comic
books which showed fullsize art um of
those cards which I always love because
you can really see them uh a lot better
uh in full format here I recently talked
about these cards on someone else's
channel that of the Colossus collector
himself Ryan uh Ryan's a good friend of
mine he had a huge live holiday special
where he invited a ton of uh comic book
creators we had a fantastic time and one
of the cool things we did is we opened a
box of those X-Men series 1 cards uh
live on the channel and gave a lot of
them away to some uh viewers so uh
pretty cool I found this the very next
day after being on that show all right
next up we have a book I already own
this is X-Men annual number eight I
already own it but uh this is a better
condition one than the one I had and it
was 50 cents had to get it uh next up we
have Uncanny X-Men number 295 although I
always talk about the Chris Claremont
run uh of X-Men I I'm also going to try
to finish eventually the entire X-Men
run perhaps I didn't have this book so
happy to pick this one up also my
favorite part I think is the back we
have an ad for the X-Men alert board
game a game I loved as a kid and my son
now actually loves we still play it I
still have it I love seeing the ad for
it on the back of this uh next up we
have a Nightcrawler comic Nightcrawler
is my favorite character uh this is a
great one here um this is Nightcrawler
number 12 written by my favorite writer
Chris Claremont he came back into the
X-Men Series in the early 2000s and
2010s and here we have night crawler on
the cover with a whole bunch of other
X-Men loved it had to get it uh we have
a minor key here this is Avengers number
326 this is the first appearance of the
character rage who I believe is actually
like a young kid who uh gets mutated or
whatever scientific experiment into this
really big strong guy was a member of
The Avengers for a little while minor
character minor first appearance happy
to get it this one is also not for me
this is H Sheena Queen of the Jungle
number zero by Dynamite Comics Sheena of
course is a very old character going
back into the uh you know the Golden Age
sort of a jungle woman I have a friend
who's really into these sort of girly
covers especially Sheena I got this for
him not for me still pretty cool art I
don't know anything about it otherwise
and the final thing I got for a dollar
isn't really a comic book at all it's
this this is the official Handbook of
the Marvel Universe number one it's not
a comic book it's a shrink wrapped uh
package of three whole punched um
basically Pages outlining all the
characters you see here on the cover it
tells their origin story it tells you
their powers and how this came about was
in the early 1980s the editor of Marvel
Jim shooter came up with an idea of
basically coming up with like an
encyclopedia of Marvel characters they
published I believe 15 comic books that
talked about all the Marvel characters
you know their Origins their power sets
they tried grounding their powers like
is a scientifically real as possible and
yeah it was pretty cool and then over
all the ' 80s you know they had
amendments and changes they had a deluxe
edition but they were all comic books
until you get to the early 1990s when
they released these where there three
whole punch Pages they also um had a
three ring binder uh for these to hold
them and they released a whole bunch of
these uh yeah you can basically get
these open up the packages sort them
alphabetically in your binder and you'd
have an encyclopedia of the Marvel
Universe uh it's very rare that I see
these you know still shrink wrapped I
think they're pretty awesome and this
one of course I think is the best of all
not only is it number one it's got
Spider-Man featured as one of the
characters so very cool absolutely worth
picking up for 50 so uh I love dollar
bin hunting guys I love 50cent bin
hunting even better and I was happy to
pick up all of these so all the rest of
these books I got in the regular bins so
they weren't dollar books but they were
very cheap with a sale and like I said I
got them even cheaper than this so I'll
tell you what they would have cost with
a sale price and let's start with this
this is X-Men number 80 from
1998 this is the 35th anniversary of the
X X-Men issue uh and you can see why I
like it it's just a really cool cover by
Salvador lraa sort of a hollow foil
Chrome uh cover that was very prevalent
in the 9s uh and of course my favorite
character right there prominent on the
front uh with the sale price this is $5
not bad oh next up this is very cool so
comically speaking has a couple of boxes
full of autographed comics and um yeah
they're really interesting because you
don't know what you're going to find in
there but there's some pretty big names
you can discover and I saw this one and
I had to have it this is X-Men Unlimited
number two from 1993 so this X-Men
unlimited series came out in the early
'90s they're sort of a larger format
X-Men book uh in fact X-Men unlimited
number one was one of my most read comic
books as a kid this of course has a
fantastic cover featuring Magneto but
made even better it's signed by the
artist Jan darima you see here was a
limited run of 5,000 signatures so very
cool to pick this up again with the sale
price $5 awesome deal right there I
mentioned earlier there were a couple of
books I saw the last time I was there I
was holding out hope would still be
there at the sale price well this one
absolutely was there it is Swamp Thing
number 11 from 1974 written by Len ween
uh interior pencils by Nester Redondo
covered by Luis Dominguez and I love the
Swamp Thing he's a very cool character
um yeah I like the ones that you know
were done by Bernie Ritson better but
this is still a really cool one a very
moody cover with some sort of tentacled
creature there holding the Damsel in
Distress uh with the sale price it would
be $15 I think it was totally worth
picking it up that
price okay the final two books are in
the same uh title uh and once again I
saw one of these books when I was there
last time very happy to pick it up
because it's a series I actually want to
collect soon uh and similar to that
first book I showed you it features
Sergeant Fury Nick Fury himself agent of
shield and here he is in his own series
uh this is number seven from
1968 uh this is a very cool series guys
for lots of reasons if you like you know
sort of the Espionage aspect of Nick
Fury of course this is a great series
but a lot of the early issues were done
the covers were done by the legendary
Jim Steno and I love these early covers
he did in this run because they cover
lots of different styles and in this
case here we have some surrealism that
is very Salvador does uh I just love the
fact that we have sort of a dolly thing
going on here it's very cool with a
clocks uh and sort of the dripping
landscape definitely like a man out of
time kind of 60s spy Thriller going on I
love these covers and I have made it
sort of a 2024 goal of mine to collect
as many of these torano Nick Fury Agents
of Shield books as I can so I was happy
to pick this one up original sticker
price $50 so $25 with the uh discount
and uh it's a beautiful copy as well the
final book once more a Nick Fury agent
of shield book this time it's number 15
this is not a stano cover this is a herb
trimp cover um now this actually
features the first appearance of bullog
not that Bullseye I know what you're
thinking Bullseye the uh very notable
Daredevil bad guy with the perfect aim
came about much later in Daredevil
number 131 uh this is the first bullseye
he's actually Bullseye two different
words uh this is his first and only
appearance he dies in this issue once
again he's an assassin type Marksman
it's a cool book it's a cool little
footnote in history I kind of felt like
talking about it but the biggest reason
I wanted to get it was because right
here this was not in the signature box
but you'll notice it is signed by dick
aers dick aers was the artist of this
book and you see he signed it right here
and although I'm certainly not a
signature authenticator I'm not you know
cbcs I did look up uh other you know
signatures by him it looks just like it
of course he's an artist who is no
longer with us so you can't get any more
of his autographs I was very happy to
pick this one up once again it's a $50
book I got for
$25 pretty cool just to find this guys
just hanging out there with all the
other back issues so now let's talk talk
about what I got all of these for if you
add up the sticker prices in all these
uh they were a little over $200 so this
should have cost me about $100 and
honestly guys uh that's absolutely a
fantastic deal for all these books
absolutely I think it's totally worth
that um but here's the thing uh I was
talking with the owner Pat a fantastic
guy as a matter of fact all the guys who
work there are just absolutely wonderful
people I love uh talking with them
whenever I visit and uh you know I've
done a lot to promote them uh over you
know the past year or so uh and they're
just again great guys I consider them
all friends and he was adding these up
and uh I'm almost embarrassed to say
this guys uh because I don't want to
think you know people to think I get any
special privileges but as a thank you
for mentioning them on the channel and
getting people into the store Pat just
said Merry Christmas I got all of these
for
free uh there are some perks to being a
YouTuber guys but even more perks just
to being uh friends with people um and I
tell you guys uh you know I hear a lot
of times my Channel people talk about
like unfriendly comic book stores I
haven't really come across many of those
everyone I've met uh certainly in my
area are just wonderful people uh very
welcoming and there's none more so than
comically speaking I walk in and it's
sort of like you know where everyone
knows your name like from you know the
bar in cheers that's a really old show
for you kids out there set in Boston um
but yeah guys I love going into the
store I feel very welcome you know
everyone says hi to me they want to talk
to me about what's going on in my life
wonderful people and although I'm kind
of embarrassed to say I got the for free
uh I am incredibly appreciative it is
the season uh for giving uh and once
again guys I have a huge thanks to this
fantastic store of comically speaking I
can't sing their praises enough if you
are in the Boston area or even visiting
you got to stop by this store in ring
Massachusetts certainly they're going to
have many more sales in the future I'll
be sure to promote those as well uh
you're gentleman and a scholar Pat thank
you so much for these I will cherish
them always uh and really does make this
quite the merry Christmas for me as well
so that's it guys head on down to the
comments and let me know what you think
of all of this let me know what you
think of these books I'd say let me know
what you think of the prices I paid but
obviously you can't beat it um but I'd
love to hear your opinions on the store
and everything that I picked up uh
that's it guys uh thank you so much for
watching keep hunting for comic books in
strange and unusual places support your
local comic book stores because uh
sometimes they're more than just a comic
book store to buy stuff sometimes
they're a place to hang out with
like-minded folk and make new friends uh
that's it guys thank you so much for
watching uh Merry Christmas Happy New
Year and I'll see you guys next time
time
