comic books are selling for cheap and
I'm getting increasingly more concerned
dare I say worried hit the like slap the
Subscribe and say hi to fire guy Ryan
hey it's me fire guy Ryan I'm here G
Collectibles he's out that guy's no good
we don't associate with him anymore not
after what he did I told you we weren't
going to talk about that today comic fan
buckle up we're here to talk about the
hottest comic books in the world and at
the list at number 10 we're taking you
back to 1941 with singled digigit Batman
man Golden Age issue number five this is
the very first time that we see the
Batmobile with that bat head on the
front when I hear Batman number five I
think of the new 52 Batman number five
by Scott Snider where you have to flip
the book around because Batman's losing
his mind down in the court of 's
Labyrinth but we're not talking about
that we're talking Golden Age stuff here
we've got a few record Breakers to get
into on this issue as well 4.0 last sold
in June for
$2,738 obliterated with a 5% increase
now selling for 2880 6.5 last sold in
September for 4200
last sale this month $6,000 for an
increase of 43% and then we have the 80
last selling for the same amount that
that September sale went for but that
hasn't happened since 2011 because this
book is so damn scarce in any grade let
alone high grade 4200 in 2011 now up
179% for an allnew high of
$1,700 this book has a lonely 227 slabs
on the cgc census and the highest graded
copy there are two are graded at a 9.6
no 98 with a book like this you don't
really need any sort of movie or TV news
or current comic events even to kind of
spike a classic key like this however if
you do take a look at the current Batman
and Robin ongoing series that is like
three issues in right now it's it's
still pretty new written by Joshua
Williamson with art by Simone Deo in the
recent issue of that one I believe issue
three robin does get a Robin mobile as
well so that is kind of related here to
the Batmobile as well Robbins is a
little more edgy and badass though now
we're GNA talk about Joshua Williamson
again later on on this list so stay
tuned for that because he's been getting
a ton of Kudos because he's writing so
damn much great stuff but Simona Deo we
got to give credit where credits du you
know that feeling let me know in the
comments section below if you've
experienced this when you get a comic
book because the cover is so intriguing
it's so vibrant it's so stylized then
you open it up to kind of be lowkey a
little disappointed because it doesn't
really match the vibe of the cover well
you don't get that with this comic book
Simone Deo on the cover and the
Interiors are just as stunning and it is
such a fun read yeah Batman Robin has
been a blast I'm really enjoying it and
I'm excited to see where they're going
they're building up some stuff with
shush a new hush related character but
that's a whole different story go check
out that book it just started too like I
said it's only three issues in you could
probably find them pretty easy utilize K
time 101 on the best comic app in
existence key collector Comics get
updates Whenever there are trailers
option status updates when new Comics
are coming out that are worth you
specking on you're going to be able to
use this app to stay up on the
marketplace and then get your pull list
order in before it's too late you
support what we do and let's take a look
at the list at number n because we have
Amazing Spider-Man 41 the first
appearance of the Rhino to discuss and
as we alluded to earlier in the video
I'm a little concerned and this is where
the concern Begins the Sinister 6 is
spiking Comics I don't think so but kind
of the Sinister Six of course being a
group of Spider-Man's classic foes who
team up to try and take them out
together because they couldn't do it
separately uh one of those members is
the Rhino who first appears in this
issue and we have talked about this book
a lot this year because of the craving
the hunter trailer that dropped earlier
in the year when we did get a brief
glimpse of the Rhinos transformation at
the very end of that trailer but ever
since then the strikes have happened and
the movie's been pushed and we just
haven't really talked about Craven or
the Rhino a lot since then we have a 6.0
that's up 133% the 9.2 this last week
sold for $4,200 for an increase of 8%
when you compare it to the recent
12-month average and we have a 1.0
record-breaking sale back in 2022 it
sold for 200 bucks now it's up 15%
selling for 230 and Rhino first
appearance is a classic ASM Rida key
everyone wants it and I think more
people want it now because of the Craven
movie sure but after the Madam web
trailer that dropped how could anybody
be confident in anything that Sony's
doing when it doesn't pertain to
Spider-Man directly so Sony has the
Spider-Man license and they've been
making these weird one-off villain
focused movies like morbius and now
Craven is coming out Madame web's not a
villain but that's a weird Spider-Man
offshoot story all of these Spider-Man L
movies they're thinking again about
teaming all of these villains up and
making a Sinister 6 style almost like a
suicide squad or like an Avengers teamup
kind of movie I don't know I don't I
don't see it they definitely tried this
before back in The Amazing Spider-Man
era as well if you remember the post
credit scene from Amazing Spider-Man 2
definitely teased the Sinister 6 in
there as well we got a glimpse of some
vulture wings and some Doc AA legs but
they never made a third movie because
the plans were supposedly so bad that
they scrapped plans for the Sinister 6
project entirely and that's what
ultimately led to Sony and Marvel
teaming up recasting Tom Holland as
Spider-Man and making him official part
of the MCU I can't help but think that
any of the news that we're covering
today it's not necessarily spiking the
book but it's probably reminding members
to go check on the books they see the
prices and
go okay I'll probably grab that case in
point journey into mystery 85 showing up
on the list at number eight this is the
first appearance of Loki and considering
the ending of Loki season 2 is Loki
someone worth specking on long term
considering that he's essentially
holding up the Multiverse and seemingly
is the complete end of his Arc I think
you could argue look he's holding up the
whole MCU on top of the Multiverse as
well and yeah it it definitely feels
final for this character and I got to I
got to say it makes me wonder like how
is the first appearance of Thanos
performing right now how is the first
appearance of Tony Stark Iron Man you
know like I feel like when a character's
done on screen that might be the time to
take a look at their first appearance if
you've had your eye on it and it's been
unattainable for a while that might be
what we're seeing here let's take a look
at what the buyers did this past week
and let's do it a little different and
report on the all-time highs while we do
it so you can see from the buyer
perspective the appeal the 2.0 record
high was $3,500 back in 2021 recent sale
this past week 14450 for an increase of
15% the book is down by half and is up
15% when you compare it to the recent
12-month average the 3.5 high was set in
2021 going for 4350 recent sale
,700 also down by more than half but up
this week 2% got to thank Loki season to
see it's one thing to get all these
averages in a vacuum but when you take a
look comparing them to the record high
it kind of puts it into perspective
let's look at the 4.0 that sold this
week for
$2,750 that is up 21% over the 12-month
average but the all-time record high 6,2
$200 back in 2021 it is very down and
then the last one here we're talking
about 5.0 we just saw a sale for $3,000
this week again 6% over the average not
bad what's the all-time high $7,000
$7,000 less than half from 2021 so many
sales but I do think it's worth
mentioning that we haven't chatted about
this book in over a year so it has to be
because of Loki season 2 which is
probably the best thing Marvel's done
since Loki season 1 which was probably
the best thing they've done since
endgame makes sense why members are
buying this book at these rates next on
the list Amazing Spider-Man number six
another Silver age book this is from
1963 single digigit Spider-Man the first
appearance and origin of the lizard you
guys buying this because of sinister 6
or you buying it because it's
single-digit Spidey probably the latter
especially when the 1.5 is going for 600
bucks up 22% 1.8 up 8% 4 five you can
get for 1375 that's up 15% and a 65 just
sold for 2250 that's up 7% but I want to
take it to the 9.4 in which there are
only 31 copies graded on the census
there's only 13 copies graded above that
in existence so high grades of this book
are not easy to come by and the record
high for a 94 was $24,000 back in 2021
this month we saw a 9.4 sell for
$1,400 hot damn has this book dropped is
that somebody who played uh Spider-Man 2
on the PlayStation 5 and saw the lizard
and we're like you know that guy's cool
I got a couple dozen thousand dollars
laying around that I'm going to go drop
on this no I don't think that's why I
don't think people are like you know he
was in the Spider-Man no way home like
three years ago or whatever at this
point maybe I'll grab the lizard no I
don't think that's what's happening
Sinister 6 like Tom mentioned but so far
the only lizard we have in the
Spider-Man universe is The Amazing
Spider-Man one that they did bring back
for no way home but I feel like they
would have to recast a new Tom Holland
to era lizard character I don't I don't
see really any future for this character
in the current Sony Spider-Man universe
but of course what the hell do I know
what do you think in the comment section
below because I personally am liking
these prices and would be hunting for
this book despite any of the things that
Ryan just said and I think that was your
point at the list at number six great
spec on a book that is so damn wanted so
undervalued and is one of the hottest
modern Comics coming out as it pertains
to the lead character we have ASM 361
the first appearance of Carnage let's
get into some numbers we've got a 9.0
that sold this week for a 23% increase
when you compare it to its 12-month
average a 9.2 we're seeing a 28%
increase selling this week a 9 .6 also
this week for 12% increase and then a
9.8 hit 475 this week which is 19% over
its 12month average when you look at the
all-time high of a 9.8 we saw 1,620 back
during the comic Boom the most recent
sale it happened after that 475 it went
for 318 so people are still getting
deals out there that's right it's going
between $3 and $400 mostly because this
book is so attainable right now there
were 10 copies graded at a 9.8 added to
the census in the last 7 days since we
were reported on this last when it made
the hot 10 a week ago and if you're up
on your Carnage modern Comics I think
that right there gives you a good idea
of how beloved this villain is yeah
Carnage is kind of doing a lot right now
he just had a really good run by ROM V
wrap up recently they had the crossover
event that happened earlier in the
summer that I personally completely
skipped but then we've got the
relaunched Carnage number one by tun gck
which just came out uh this last week
and it kind of blew me away I was I was
very very pleasantly surprised with that
book I really enjoyed it it's really
creepy it's getting back to the serial
killer Vibes I started to get a little
little bit of Saw vibes from this book
which was a very cool feeling I strongly
recommend the new Carnage number one
that might be why we're seeing people go
pick up his first appearance but I think
people in our age range who grew up on
like the Animated Series the Spider-Man
animated stuff we're really suckers for
uh symbiotes in particular so I think
once you see this book get down to a
certain price point it's hard not to
pull the trigger the ending to issue
number one is outstanding and it will
leave you shook at add it to your poll
list and let's chat about number five on
the list cuz this right here is a market
indicator book Amazing Fantasy 15 the
first appearance of Peter Parker the
first appearance of the Spider-Man I
would imagine for most comic collectors
out there this book is like the Holy
Grail out there it doesn't really get
much more legendary than Amazing Fantasy
15 and we do have several sales in the
low to mid-grade range that did perform
particularly well this week compared to
their 12-month averages but if we look
at the all-time high I think that paints
a better picture of the current state of
things and what buyers may be thinking
when they decide to spend this much
money on some funny books 2.5 selling
for
$4,255 from a height of
45550 from back in 2022 it's still up 1%
but royally down yes it is up and down
at the same time that makes sense let's
go to the 3.0 because again there we saw
a sale for $
29,44 that is a 3% increase compared to
what it's been selling for all year but
the record high the all-time high sale
of this book was almost double
48,000 last February 2022 we had a
strong 4.0 sale take place this past
week and the heights it reached was back
in 2021 for
$75,000 someone grabbed one for $
37365 for an increase of 6% then the 5.0
did much of the same the heights of a
5.0 were reached in June of 2022 that
wasn't that long ago and it sold for
$100,000
and what's the sale we're reporting on
today Ryan uh a lot less a lot less than
that it's not 100,000 it is
69,6 And1 and now we're at the list of
number four with gii Joe number one this
is a classic80s book but here's the
thing it's all about the Enon Universe
it's all about Robert Kirkman void
Rivals which just finished its first Arc
Joshua Williamson in the distance with
Duke number one and Cobra Commander and
we got dangel Warr and Johnson just
slaying it on Transformers one and issue
number two drawing and writing the whole
thing superb that it's pushing people to
buy 80s books especially when they see
the prices we have a cgc 9.0 that sold
for a clean 200 this week for a 25%
increase a 9.2 is selling for a 9%
increase and a new stand 9.2 sold for
225 this week for a 20% increase 9.4
sold for 290 up 36% 9.6 up 40% new stand
9.8 hit
1350 that was clear over a $5,000 book
at one time hell direct Market copies of
approach the $5,000 marker and you can
get those for between $800 and $900
right now but there were times of this
year where it was floating around the
$500 marker but that was before the
Energon Universe really took off we're
about halfway to the deadline to sign up
for the December mystery mail call if
you like comic books which I'm pretty
sure you do if you're at this point in
this video they made it pretty far yeah
you're weird if you don't I don't know
what you're doing here uh comic Tom
101.com to sign up for the mystery mail
call we've got a few different
exclusives in there like this one this
is Batman White 181 this gorgeous Ariel
Diaz cover this is the first appearance
of poison ivy reprints the first
appearance of poison ivy of course and
then also we've got another exclusive in
there Spider-Man 37 with this Tyler
Kirkham variant that connects to last
month's Spider Boy cover by the same
artist that's right everybody gets both
of these books and two to three others
at random a print and you support what
we do and we send you Comics every
single month it's only 35 bucks per
month looking at the list at number
three whoa what's welcome back some Rob
lifeold goodness New Mutants 98 this
book has not been on our list in the
last few weeks I had to go back and look
the last time we talked about this book
it's been eight weeks I feel like we've
been talking about it every single week
but it's been a while so welcome back
Deadpool first appearance of Deadpool
new Mutant 998 had a slew of sales that
went above average this week including a
5 which hit 232 for an 8% increase an 85
hit 335 that's an increase of 5% and
then the 90 landed at 375 this week for
a 10% increase the 92 is up 6% the 94 is
up 10% and the new 9.8 sold for
$2,995 that's up 8% but when you
consider that $3,000 which is
essentially what that new stand price
just went for was the heights of a
direct Market copy back in 2021 the new
stands are selling further what the
direct heights were just two years ago
but there's been so much news in between
these eight weeks that this book has
been considered you know one of the
hottest in the world since we last
chatted about it as it pertains to
dazzler kidpool dog pool Rob leld
getting excited on the mic I mean it
makes sense why this book has still been
lingering in the background waiting to
be purchased especially when you
consider how many books were added to
the census hot damn there have been an
increase of 42 copies in 9.8 alone in
the last eight weeks that is a 5 to6 new
9.8 availability every seven days for
over two months it feels like so long
ago but it's been like months since we
got that preview image that that
snapshot of uh Hugh Jackman in the
wolver Wolverine Comic accurate costume
and then right after that the entire
world Hollywood shut down and that's why
we saw Deadpool and Wolverine on this
list for weeks and weeks and weeks
because there was nothing else to talk
about now everything's starting to kick
back up we're actually hearing from
actors and writers and all kinds of
creators because they're allowed to do
interviews again including Iman valani
who is promoting the Marvels she agrees
with a lot of the commentary that we've
read as of late as it pertains to like
the opinions of how these characters
look on the screen or going to look I
have to say she is seemingly a really
cool person like she seems like a
legitimate nerd a geek oh yeah she's
she's very much a comic nerd and you can
tell by what she has to say here I do
wish it was the half sleeve suit not
going to lie I want to see his arms but
when I saw those leaked images I was
going crazy like especially where we've
come from Brian singer's X-Men and like
their entire black leather suits and
that like one joke that Cyclops made of
like oh would you prefer yellow spandex
this is the moment all the fans have
been waiting for it's so cool which
brings us to number two on the list with
Uncanny X-Men 130 the Taylor Swift
effect is still present hey 7 .0 sold
earlier this week for a 33% increase
compared to the 12month average we had a
new stand 9.0 hit 340 that's 62% over
its 12- month average and then in the
9.4 direct Market Edition that hit 370
for a 25% increase the 9.6 is up 11% a
new stand 9.6 sold for 620 that's up 32%
we have two record-breaking sales people
are trying to get whatever they can a
3.5 last sold in 2022 for $90 now it's
selling for 96 up 7% but that's still is
like Main aining at a time where we're
reporting on like 50% decreases like
this shows that it's hot the new stand
7.5 last sold back in October for $185
that's up 10% now breaking the $200
marker for the first time in comic
history yeah and that record was like a
month old so I'm sure we're going to see
that one broken again next month too
these are small increases like he's
saying but the fact that they are
increases week over week over week shows
that there is a level of hype for this
movie and even people directly involved
in this movie have been commenting on
some of that hype as of late in response
to Taylor Swift's questions this is what
Ryan Reynolds went on record to say yeah
I've heard that one I love it I think
it's a sign of how eager people are to
get a peak behind the curtain in this
world every single one of these secrets
and spoilers will be revealed on July 26
what is that like 8 months away I don't
know but that's how you do it Robert
Kirkman you gota you got to be a little
more careful with your answers and
responses that was a Kevin feige level
he's he's tight he's keeping it locked
in they got nothing in that interview
we'll have to wait and see we need you
to hit the like button our videos will
not be seen by the other fellow F
members if we don't ride that algorithm
wave support the show and let's shout
about the number one hottest book in the
world because holy smokes is it a joke
I'm starting to think we're in Crazy
Land right now did Sony actually put out
a trailer to be bashed on purposefully
because they're trying to get whatever
hype they can get with Madam Webb at the
list at number one ASM 210 the first
appearance of the blind paralyzed spider
totem that's true this this trailer
worked on somebody somebody's out there
scooping up a lot of copies of Madam web
there are there people out there going
oh I got to get these books now I'm all
in on Madam web you guys did not see
what I saw I have the foresight Ryan
someone out there has a Manifesto on a
website somewhere saying like the
internet is wrong and this is why Madame
web is going to be the best superhero
movie ever but I don't see it myself I
want to know from the community in the
comment section below why are people
buying this book is it because the
trailer was so bad the memeification of
it has drove people to check out books
that were once hot let's not forget
there were times in the last couple
years that this movie seemed like it was
going to be a banger like I'm not
kidding it seemed so prosterus but then
it was described as a thriller with Ben
Wyatt I mean like Adam Scott but I call
him Ben Wyatt it seemed like it could
work this right here could have been
like the edge of spiderverse in the Sony
verse yeah it could have been and then
we saw them there was like a shot of
them running around the streets of New
York and there you know was like a
street photograph taken of them filming
on the set and it just it looked like a
CW Show it looked plastic and fake and
ever since then I just haven't had a
good feeling about this the 75 is up 52%
the 85 is up 20% the new stand 90 is up
177% you can get a 9.4 for 225 that's up
29% by the way a direct Market 9.6 went
for 280 for an increase of 12% the new
stand 9.6 sold for 357 for an increase
of 10% the heights this book reached out
of 9.8 was
$2,500 the last GPA reported sale was
900
75 hot Dam I'm very excited to get into
this comment section when this video
hits YouTube I I need to know what other
people think about this whole Madam web
thing because the fact that this book
landed at number one on a list that has
singled digit Batman on it and singled
digit ASM and here we are talking about
a book that's I guess it's just it makes
sense it's more recent so it's the price
is lower than you know books that cost
thousands of dollars so that does make
sense we do see a lot of traction on
this one I'd be surprised to see it you
know getting closer to the movie I I
don't know I don't know what this book's
going to do I'm very interested though
the book may be the number one hottest
book in the world but don't overpay cuz
at best this is a long long long term
investment we appreciate your time today
as always geek responsibly and stay
minty fresh he's coming back don't worry
or is he no s
