hey guys welcome back to clownfish TV
this is neon I am here with Kiki
Sparkles hello that's me and uh man it's
the end of the year it has not been a
good year for superhero movies and
variety is talking about the end of
comic book movie
culture
uhoh I mean I just think it took a
surprising it took him this long yeah so
we've been talking about this we
actually did a video that a lot of
people watched talking about the end of
of Hollywood nerd culture and and this
is another part of it basically uh you
know Hollywood nerd culture uh went
mainstream when the superhero movies
were big Marvel movies were huge and
Dungeons and Dragons was big and uh you
know anime started to get bigger you
know outside of the circles it's always
been big in and all this stuff blew up
and of course we had activists that
wanted to get into that stuff into that
scene and uh take control of it cuz they
had a platform and now the whole thing's
imploding it's all it's all imploding
uh-oh guys what are you going to do
because this is what was supposed to
save comic books was the movies somehow
magically were going to boost Comic Book
Sales not when the the comic book
stories aren't the same characters you
see on screen I know right uh so we're
going to talk about this to have variety
come out and they use some pretty harsh
language and say that it's over man like
comic book culture mainstream the
mainstreaming comic book culture is over
and nerds are like yes thank God finally
we're going to talk about it before we
get into any further Please Subscribe
for more pop culture news views and
rants guys get woohoo if you do woohoo
go out to shop clown fish.com so many of
you already have pick up a copy of
crimson Ren and previously on clownfish
TV one or both we've got these books in
stock and geeki has been shipping them
out daily so have a whole bunch ready to
go on on Tuesday cuz we don't have mail
again until Tuesday yeah so uh lots of
people getting their books and thank you
so much for the support we're going to
be doing more books next year working on
some working on some plans so let's uh
let's talk about this as uh variety
dropped at earlier today why the fall of
comic book movie culture is
inevitable it's not just bad sequels
it's simpler than that the fancy Heroes
Have Been strip minded mhm uh they've
taken it from behind they've uh
yeah any anyway uh they're talking about
the mediocre product and people are kind
of like look you know comic basically
the gist of it we're not going to read
this word for word but the gist of it
from what I did read was we've done so
many Batman movies so many Superman
movies so many tertiary character movies
and they're on TV and they're in video
games they're all over the place and
it's not special anymore it's not
special no it's just it's just like you
know every other month there's something
from where either a show or a movie and
I'm sorry I think next year we have what
eeko and stuff I don't think that's
going to be very good but that could
just be me but you know so here's where
they get kind of snarky though because
they're like uh the very drubbing these
movies received at the box office and
the drum beat of snark and critical
reviews might say There's Hope comic
book movie culture is after all only as
good as the movies it gives us this year
uh was the corporations Disney and
Warner Brothers movies names Disney and
Warner Brothers failed you know what cuz
it's safe to say it now variety where
were you when everybody was pointing
this out before you know what I mean
like you all come out now when it's
already been safe after a bunch of you
 on people who've been saying it
it's kind of like when when like if
somebody dies and and then you're like
oh I always knew they were going to die
because of this this and this but you
never say hey I think you're going to
die before cuz look variety needed
superhero movies to be successful
because they needed to be able to write
about superhero movies you know that was
a big source of traffic for them for a
long time there were a lot of channels
that popped up on YouTube and that's all
they covered but was the MCU when people
actually gave a you know Star Wars
when people actually gave a and now
they don't and now they don't so they're
like well I guess we can since we're not
making any money off of them anyway
might as well just
freaking rip the Band-Aid off and and
say what's going on there's a temptation
to point a finger at the producers and
execs and vilify them for their shoty
product uh but now it's part of the new
couch potato Rebel culture what
Critics on their reflexive high horse
mostly hate comic book movies and more
and more they have used their reviews of
them to chastise the man that is kind of
true which critics I don't know you mean
are they talking about fans or they
talking about critics I think critics
like critic critics uh you know oh
because the fans would seem to be the
other side of the fence the fans yeah
would be on the other side of the fence
but they have their own Collective
resentment and rebel fire this year the
critics in the ComicCon horde stood
shoulder to shoulder joining forces to
look at the suits and uh to look the
suits right in the eye and say you did
this to us we're bored as hell and we're
not going to take it anymore you here's
the thing though the critics are just
now joining in before it was except for
a couple you know like things like
eternals or whatever they just loved
anything especially was like you know
Captain Marvel or something like that
and it was all the horrible toxic
manbaby you know racist fans who are the
problem you know what I mean now they're
actually calling out crap too so when
they're saying join forces they're the
ones are finally joining in with the
fans who have been calling the out
uh they said there's a larger reality
about comic book movie culture that we
tend to ignore let's state it outright
this is starting to fail because
it's
spent because it's been used up I'm not
talking I was funny ver said this
is starting to fail starting to fail
starting where have you been like that
needs to be the title of the video uh
because it's been used up I'm not like a
used up and okay put away wet that's
that's about horses we're talking about
horses I'm not just talking about
Ant-Man or the flash I'm talking about
the characters who got us in the door in
the first place Superman Batman
Spider-Man Wonder Woman Captain America
no if they were themselves I think we'd
be fine I think we would be fine
everybody keeps changing everything
those are DC except for a couple anyway
we need oh this is interesting First DC
except for the last go ahead this is
interesting though we need these
characters to be Gods again and they
were until they weren't memo to James
gun gods have a way of losing power when
you stick them in reruns so not just uh
the oversaturation of these characters
but how these characters are portrayed
they've been trying to
humanize superheroes you know and
Spider-Man's always been like the
Everyman or whatever but you don't
humanize somebody like Superman or Thor
or Captain America they're supposed to
be larger than life they can relate to
humans they love humans they protect
humans L them are human but you know
they are but I'm just saying like but
they're supposed to be above it all
they're supposed to be what we aspire to
be you know Wonder Woman they're
supposed to be what we aspire to be not
hey they've got all the freaking
Hang-Ups and problems that we have you
know except they got superpowers and and
that's what they've been doing with the
comics they've been dragging these
characters through the mud you know um
so this is interesting they talk about
how you know Star Wars was created a
certain time and place and now it's all
imitation imitation Star Wars imitation
Spielberg yeah you know I mean this is
just very very very interesting to have
variety called out uh they said it's not
on life support yet comic book movie
culture um I I disagree with that I
think if James gun doesn't knock it out
of the park with Superman I think it's
over I think it's definitely over um Bob
Iger said that they spread themselves
too th but like you said what they have
to look forward to next year what we
have next year a bunch of D list e-list
F List characters so here's a here's a
list of some of the movies that are
coming out next year so let's look at
the superhero movies and see if there's
anything exciting look at all the movies
but there isn't much that exciting metam
web hell no no uh Deadpool 3 is about
the only one that's that one I think
will Deadpool 3 Craven doubt it uh Venom
3 May Joker Joker yeah is that really a
superhero movie though I no not it's a
musical um we've got yeah Lord of the
Rings no wait is that that's next year
that's coming oh is that the anime one I
don't know I don't care I mean there's
barely looking at what's coming out next
year and there's very few things that I
even give two shits about I know that
much no there's not much there's not
much coming out I'm sorry I mean there
there's stuff coming out but it's the
stuff that's coming out is is nons
superhero stuff so we're talking just
strictly superhero movies and there's
not much excitement other than Deadpool
in my my personal uh personal opinion
yeah so um yeah so this is interesting
uh they said if superhero culture is now
entering the early St stages of its
death throws it will actually be for an
honorable reason comic book movies were
never going to die because Ant-Man or
Captain Marvel was bad I disagree with
that the only reason they were going to
die is that they had served their
purpose the the reason they're going to
die is because there's how many of them
yeah yeah there's too many of them no
everybody's sick to death of them they
made us dream of men and women in capes
who could fly and who seemed
indestructible because all that made us
feel good but then it stopped making us
feel good because we had already been
there and that it was time perhaps to
get back to reality no people don't want
to get back to reality they just want
superhero movies that's they don't want
shitty superhero movies look if they
were all good people still get their
hopes up right they still get their
hopes up when they announce like oh
there's a new X-Men movie coming oh
there's new and they they're all about
it they want to see what's going on and
then they're like oh this looks
terrible this sounds terrible what uh
what's being rumored for the Fantastic
for and the X-Men is terrible but you
know there's not much excitement in the
comic books either because before it
used to be the reason that people got
excited about the movies is they read
the comics and they liked the comics and
they wanted to see that on the big
screen there's nothing being done in
comics now that's worth bringing to the
big screen the only thing I was excited
about maybe for like the MCU show was
was Daredevil and it's going to be
nothing like Netflix so I don't care
they had to re-shoot it so bad they had
to re-shoot it right I already know it's
going to be like She-Hulk 2.0 well they
might try to change it and fix it now
not Netflix it was Netflix Daredevil I'd
be all over that but instead of just go
rewatch Netflix Daredevil cuz it was
actually good it is still Netflix
Netflix Daredevil is in my opinion the
best modern Marvel adaptation ever it
might be the best one of the best
liveaction adaptations ever uh it
actually ages very very well they
thankfully got to a place where it made
sense to to stop it so you can just
pretend there is no fourth season you
know it's it's that's it they told the
story and uh everybody lives happily
ever after right that's it and that's my
head Cannon but uh I don't know guys I
think they're just going to start
looking to uh make excuses and play the
blame game and the reality is we had a
lot a glut of really subpar and it
kind of reminds me of the video game
Crash you it happened in the early 80s
like video games were doing great and
then they just started making all kinds
of shitty games I mean they were just
crapping out bad ports of Pac-Man and ET
and every other company was making
subpar video games for Atari and
whatever cuz they have the licensing
locked down and it it crashed the market
but Nintendo came a couple years later
and they kept a tighter rain on things
they kept a tighter leash on things and
they had some quality control and guess
what video games never went away again
you know that's that's that's it that's
my take that's my take on it I don't
know we going to wrap this up yep so
please subscribe for more pop culture
news views rants guys we'll talk later
bye
[Music]
oh
