2023 has been a banner year for comic
books we're finally able to admit
there's a severe lack of quality in the
industry and now today I'm going to talk
about the worst comic books of 2023 and
it was very hard to kind of nail it down
to these series now obviously there's
some good stuff I just did my best
comics of 2023 video not too long ago
but it's time to identify the biggest
culprits the real reasons why the comic
book industry is really suffering in
America these days is because of a ton
of bad comic books specifically by DC
and Marvel I'm not here to go make fun
of like uh indie creators or any comic
books I'm here to point out the stuff
that's killing the really important
comic books specifically at Marvel on DC
this list was so hard to nail down there
were so many bad comic books to really
choose from and these are some of the
really bad ones I couldn't even fit on
the list Avengers Assemble from Jason
Aaron speed force uh scis perers flash
Captain Marvel Alyssa long Amazing
Spider-Man Cosmic ghost rider Harley
Quinn Lazarus Planet Hulk from Donnie
cage black panther white widow a
Marvel's voices series the entire Star
Wars line a power girl alien Joker the
man who stopped laughing death of the
Venom ver there's some really really bad
comic books in there and they couldn't
even crack the list because we had
actually stuff that was so much worse
and if you want to know the specifics of
why there's a bad quality issue in comic
books I'm about to get to them in each
and every single one of these issues
because there's something absolutely
terrible about every one of these comic
book series that separates it from the
rest now let's start out with number 10
night terrors Joshua Williamson this was
the big DC Comic event that kicked off
2023 and basically halted all the
momentum of dawn of DC for no reason
whatsoever this thing was an absolute
cluster that's the best way to
describe night tears it it shut down a
really cool Green Arrow series it shut
down a really good Green Lantern series
it shut down a pretty damn good Superman
series it halted a fun action comic
series as well and all for not there was
nothing compelling about night teror not
the big and villain uh Insomniac or
whatever his name was it was just a
reason to do a Halloween themed event
but not during Halloween and they shut
down the entire line for a story no one
cared about now was there a issue here
or there that was actually decent yeah
go read night tiar Green Lantern that's
as good as it could get shockingly
Jeremy Adams was able to take chicken
 and make chicken salad out of it
but everybody else failed the test
including Josh Williamson himself
nothing cool came out of this and it was
an enormous waste of time and of course
DC Comics had to fill all these books
with just the worst writers period with
your Danny LS and all that kind of
there's a reason so many comic book fans
are just fed up with events especially
from DC Comics they are completely
meaningless and the way DC does events
now just absolutely sucks they launch an
event and they bring in the worst riders
in the world to like flesh it out in the
middle and they always end up stinking
just go check out the stuff associated
with Beast world right now if you want
to see what I'm talking about a night
terar an enormous waste of time and
should have been it should have been the
last draw from Joshua Williamson writing
event Comics at DC but we know in 2024
we're gonna get a big Queen Brainiac
event series taking up Superman in
Action Comics that's why Philip Kennedy
Johnson's not going to be on Action
Comics anymore absolute travesty they
should never ever let Joshua Williamson
write an event series at DC Comics again
he has failed too many times at number
nine Marvel Comics event dark web how
can you up a Spider-Man X Man Venom
crossover you let Zeb Wells write it my
goodness this thing was was so stupid
another Halloween themed event not
during Halloween and in this one
basically what Zeb Wells did is he went
and wrote Inferno again you remember the
awesome X-Men event back in the day even
though Jonathan Hickman had just done an
event I believe in 2022 called Inferno
which actually wasn't Inferno but this
one is Inferno it's meline prior the
Goblin Queen the queen of uh limbo or
whatever as she's working with kasm who
was supposed to be a big deal that Zeb
Wells had made you know Peter Parker's
clone into Chasm and it turns out not to
be anything important and this this
enormous enormous waste of time when
You' got X-Men and Spider-Man crossing
over you expect something cool there was
nothing cool in this and the big thing
that came out of dark web and I you
not if you didn't read it you made the
right decision but this is the big thing
came out of dark web limbo created an
embassy in New York City in a mailbox so
there's like a possessed mailbox where
you can talk to meline Prior and the
rest of the residents of limbo that was
the big Fallout of the dark web
event they even wasted some kuber art
there too which is just a party Foul in
my opinion do not read dark web stop
letting Zeb Wells write Amazing
Spider-Man and certainly don't let him
write any more big event books because
it absolutely just oh it so bad just so
so bad just a big big disappointment
that they would do that one is it worse
the night terrs I think so but I could
see why other people would say night
teror was the bigger offender because it
did shut the entire DC Comics line down
for like two or three months straight
which was a huge travesty speaking of DC
Comics coming in at number eight Wonder
Woman by Tom King another Cobble book
wasting absolutely fantastic art
normally Tom King's modus operandi is to
have a really Banger opening issue a
second issue that really fills up the
Intrigue and kind of makes you buy into
it you're like ah maybe Tom King got it
right this time and then he craps to bed
at about issue number five or six and
then he craps to bed again at about
Issue Number 10 leading into the finale
that's normally what Tom King does
somehow with Wonder Woman the third most
important superhero and all of DC kobok
the third part of the Trinity a comic
book hero that we haven't had a good run
from in over a decade he shat the bed on
the very first issue we actually haven't
seen Wonder Woman yet in the Cobble book
because he doesn't know how to write the
character and it's just been so awful
all of the sudden the Amazon because one
Amazon like murdered 19 guys in a pool
hole have been expelled from America and
it turns out there's like 200 Amazon
squatting in the US and then we just
start gutting down Amazons and all this
stupid stuff because Tom King doesn't
want to write a Wonder Woman story he
wants to write an allegory about illegal
immigration and the war on terror
because he has a guilty conscience of
whatever it is that he did that was
really shitty while he was in the CIA
while he was in Iraq or whatever and we
all have to suffer to where we have
what's supposed to be a bigname riter
who's totally been exposed over the past
few years uh the bed on what's
supposed to be an enormous name
character an alist character that
absolutely is not going to sell because
this series just absolutely blows and I
feel so bad for Daniel srey this should
be making him a superstar in comic books
the art is absolutely fantastic but the
story uh just sucks in the fourth issue
which I am going to review very very
soon they'll probably have the review
out before this video even comes up live
is somehow the worst of the series he's
gotten progressively worse Wonder Woman
number one terrible Wonder Woman number
two more terrible Wonder Woman number
three somehow more terrible and then
Wonder Woman number four the
drizzling shits I don't know how he
pulled this one off but Tom King used to
be somebody and now he's just another uh
failed comic book writer DC Comics
that's holding the entire publisher down
and I can't believe he destroyed one of
this fast I thought it would take him at
least six months to show his true colors
and something up on the series and
he did it in record time even for Tom
King I would say heroes in crisis was
more redeemable through the first four
issues than freaking Wonder Woman at
number seven Allan Scott the green laner
and Tim Sheridan of course this is going
back to the Golden Age of DC Cooks to
rewrite Allan Scott because in an
alternate universe when we did Earth two
or whatever Allan Scott was gay so now
he's got to be gay in Earth Prime and
now we got to go back and erase all of
his history and in order to do that we
have to bring in one of the worst comic
book writers in the entire industry Tim
Sheridan who every single thing that he
has done that's had his name on it has
completely sucked it obviously started
out with uh Teen Titans Academy terrible
comic book he also did a Shazam series
terrible comic book The only thing he
did that wasn't terrible was uh what was
it flasho Beyond where it was actually
Jeff John's and Jeremy Adams writing it
and then they gave him like a Pity
credit like maybe he got to write two
lines of dialogue and they threw his
name on the goddamn book because they
didn't want him to be embarrassed
anymore unfortunately for Tim Sheridan
he's only embarrassed himself with Allen
Scott the Green Lantern we're only like
two or three issues in on this one and
if you want to see what a terrible comic
book writer Tim Sheridan is go read the
first issue of Allen Scott the Green
Lantern which is not a good book and
then read the second issue and tell me
this guy actually knows how to tell a
coherent ongoing story in a comic book
the second issue literally literally
until the very last page has nothing to
do with anything in the first issue oh
and now he's reccon the entire character
in the origins of Allan Scott as your
Green Lantern because now he went into
Arkham Asylum so he get like a
reorientation surgery or whatever and it
turns out like some uh trans character
named Billy actually made him the green
lter and that's where the power came
from or something like that because Tim
Sheridan and DC Comics want nothing more
than to on the characters in the
history of DC Comics themselves this
thing has been an absolute show and
there's a reason that Tim Sheridan has
no future in comic books and this is
probably the final straw from him
because we have seen the sales on Allan
Scott the Green Lantern and despite him
pleading for everyone to buy the book
nobody ended up supporting it and I do
not blame them coming in at number six
Tim Drake Robin Megan Fitz Martin
another writer that came in when Dan
Dido hired all these Riders from the
Warner Brothers animation Department
that were doing uh some projects that
were associated with DC Comics
characters Tim Sharon came in on that
Megan Fitz Martin came in on that Jeremy
Adams also did but Jeremy Adams kind of
worked out Megan Fitz Martin is among
the worst new writers to come into DC
Comics in some time probably surpassing
Tim Sheridan I would actually say that
Tim Drake Robin is technically the worst
comic book not only just because of the
art we only got one issue of Riley rosmo
within 2023 and then they they changed
the artist on the last three or four it
turns out it wasn't just the art that
was holding Tim Drake Robin back it's
actually the writing of Megan Fitz
martiners as she goes back to rcon and
other character sexual orientation and
make Tim Drake The Gay Robin or whatever
and guess what the book turned into the
Tim Drake Bernard like romance book it's
absolutely hideous what goes on there
and there's like one story where Tim
Drake Robin actually leaves a building
full people burning inside to go and
console his boyfriend because that was
more important at the time actually
going out and saving people was a an
afterthought to the feelings of Bern Ard
in the way that his parents were talking
to him that's the kind of crappy writing
you'll get in there and hopefully Megan
fitsmart never writes at DC CICS again
because she certainly doesn't deserve
another chance after this and obviously
what happened during uh that young
justice stuff uh during the previous
Josh Williams in event that wasn't very
good just a lot of really crappy stuff
like the bottom of the barrel the DC
stuff is just so bad these days and it's
because of people like Tim Sheridan and
Megan Fitz Martin and a couple of other
writers that I'm going to get to in the
not too distant future but first we need
to talk about number five Captain
America Cold War Colin Kelly Jackson
lanic Toshi anabi they decided to
relaunch the Captain America series as
two series one starring Falcon cap one
starring Steve Rogers the Steve Rogers
book was written by Colin Kelly and
Jackson lanzig two of the worst riders
in the entire industry and sales
plummeted almost immediately and they
started reconing history again oh we
heard that one yet have we heard that
all these writers like to go back and
Recon the characters and all the things
that they stood for it turns out the
star on Captain America shield doesn't
stand for liberty or America it's
actually from an alien species or
something and then the Winter Soldier is
not the Winter Soldier anymore by the
end he's the new Revolution as they try
to concoct some stupid history and I
think they even got Sharon Carter in
there and ruined that character as well
and by the end nobody read Captain
America Cold War because no one was
interested because the other two series
sucked and Captain America was canceled
in less than 12 issues which I believe
for a Captain America ongoing series is
the record that is the fastest that you
can actually kill a Captain America
series tanesi coat's Captain America run
lasted longer than Colin Kelly and
Jackson lanix that's how bad these guys
are everything they touch turns to crap
and for some reason well we know why
because they're extremely cheap they
keep getting high-profile writing gigs
at Marvel and DC expect to see these two
jabronies on the X-Men reboot of Marvel
Comics and right now they're doing an OD
to planetary on the outside book that no
one's reading as well these guys need to
go away the fastest and toi yabuchi I
think he just had a cup of coffee in
comic books and I don't see him coming
back either because he was not a good
writer at all getting into number four
and I'm going to cheat here a little bit
we're going to go with Hawk Girl and
Fire and Ice welcome to Smallville HW
Girl by Jia axar Rod Fire and Ice
written by Joanne star two great
examples of one of the things that's
destroying DC Comics these days well
they decide well we want to get some
miniseries out starring Fire and Ice you
know obviously from jli and Hawk Girl
after we had that successful Robert midi
Hawkman Series so what are we going to
do let's go out and hire people that
don't write comic books Let's go and
find JZ Axelrod a trans Creator who
likes comic books but never actually
been successful let's put them on the
book oh Joanne stair you've actually
written a lot of lesbian romance ya
graphic novels you'd be perfect to
welcome to Smallville and both of these
books are so bad if I had to choose
which one is worse it's got to be haw
because it does have the self-insert
character of J Zia Axel Rod uh what's
her name Galaxy the prettiest star or
whatever which is like a trans alien
like she changed your gender or
something and you've got Dyke shirts and
you've got Kendra Saunders
questioning her sexuality as she's
messing around with like this girl that
she knew in college is now trans
apparently and then when you go to Fire
and Ice welcome to small B way this
thing is just so bad this is why you
don't hire people that don't write
superhero comic books and know nothing
about the heroes at one point fire who's
ultimately the villain of the book even
though she's supposed to be the hero
goes to a A Drag Brunch in Smallville
the home of Clark Kent with Clark Kent's
mom ma Kent people are outside
protesting obviously in smalltown Kansas
fire walks out and almost murders one of
the protesters for doing absolutely
nothing and then is treated like the
hero once again that is what is wrong
with DC Comics so many just terrible
creators going out there and just
finding so many people on the trash Heap
and bringing them in to their universe
and calling them writers see also Nicole
Ms and her upcoming Suicide Squad Dream
Team Series because this is not
going away anytime soon thankfully hot
girl is over and if you were to tell me
that you think hot girl is the worst
comic book of the year I would
absolutely believe you but I do think
there are some really bad comic books
out there that are worse because they're
so much more important with that in mind
my number three is Punisher by Jason
Aaron and with Jason Aaron's last Fu to
Marvel Comics fans he goes and takes the
Beloved Frank Castle and destroys
everything about the character
systematically over 12 issues obviously
ending with the cou d' gr that we find
out that Frank Castle's wife and
children their deaths are the ones that
motivate him to take up his mission as
The Punisher to go out there and root
out Evil by any means necessary his wife
was already planning to divorce him when
she was dead and Jason Aaron went out of
his way to show you just why she would
do that because Frank Castle was born a
serial killer he started killing people
when he was like eight years old he was
terrible to his wife his kids were
scared of him and there was nothing good
about Frank Castle to begin with and
that's why the character needed to go
away that's why we need to get rid of
the symbol we need to get rid of
anything related to Frank Castle and
reboot it with some stupid series with
David pepos whoever the that is not
important enough to make this countdown
because the Jason Aaron code red on a
Punisher was just unconscionable in my
opinion one of the worst things I've
ever seen done and just really really
spiteful if you want to see what a
spiteful comic book looks like to the
character and the history and the fans
of a character go and check out Jason
Aaron's Punisher run I dare you
and the art by Jesus science absolutely
sucks as well that thing was an absolute
travesty that's what Jason Aaron is and
as a DC Comics fan I ain't glad to see
him come over to our side of the
universe you know what I'm saying and I
bet a lot of Marvel fans are happy to
see Jason Aaron gone now we've made it
to the final two the top two worst comic
book series of the entire year at number
two I'm going with Batman Catwoman
Gotham more written by chips at arski
tiny Howard this thing was an absolute
cluster coming out of night teror I
didn't think you could slow down the
momentum of a series or character worth
than night teror did itself but somehow
Batman Catwoman Gotham more did a did a
worst job what was Chip sadarski ever
thinking greenlighting the idea of doing
a team up like event comic book
with tiny Howard did you not see what
happened to Jonathan Hickman when he did
a team up with tiny Howard she ruined
his series too and my goodness cat
Catwoman uh Batman Gotham war is just
it's almost inexplicable just how bad
this is now thankfully for the most part
Jorge am menz wasn't doing a lot of the
art it was uh Mike Hawthorne so it
almost looked as bad as it deserved but
I've never seen a comic book that was so
confused on what it was trying to tell
you had the chip sadarski side of the
story trying to show that Batman Bruce
Wayne is losing it because zurar is
overtaking him which is causing him to
treat his family bad but then you have
the tinny Howard side of the story that
was trying to elevate Catwoman and turn
her into Robin Hood even though
clearly tinny Howard has no
understanding what the Robin Hood story
or Mythos or lore or any of that stuff
and totally the entire thing and
then all of a sudden the big bad villain
is a meteor at the end I cannot like how
we got there I don't really know they
did do a few things to Bruce Wayne the
process he lost his Mansion it was
bought by Vandal Savage he lost his
Brownstone I think uh he lost access to
all his Batman technology within the
event and he lost his entire family they
basically gave up on him at the end of
this even though technically if you read
the book Batman really didn't do
anything wrong but the entire bat family
turned on Batman because he wanted to
stop crime if that sounds like a really
good compelling Batman story you should
probably check out Gotham War if that
sounds like the the stupidest story in
the history of the world you have a lick
of Common Sense apparently chip zadarski
and tinny Howard don't because God God
that thing is so bad I dare you to go
read Gotham more if you didn't I
double dog dare you you will not be able
to get through this stupid book that had
the worst characterization I've seen in
Batman even worse probably probably than
 Tom King's Batman run which was
a chocies now we are here we are to the
number one worst comic book series of
all of 2023
and yes I'm cheating a little bit
because it would have been so difficult
to fill up the list if I just decided to
take all the X-Men comic books
individually so we're going to call
Marvel Comics X-Men line the worst comic
book of 2023 Jordan White and the Legion
of doofus is dropping the ball left and
right there are so many bad Series in
here we've got lethal Legion New Mutants
Charlie Jane Anders we've got
astonishing ican from Steve Orlando
Marauders from Steve Orlando which
somehow worse we've also got the third
iteration of Captain Britain Excalibur
by um tiny Howard there's so
many bad things in here is there a gem
here there probably but for the most
part Marvel Comics X-Men line has just
been hideous for several years now and
in my opinion absolutely culminated in
uh 2023 go read s of sinister I dare you
to tell me that is good absolutely not
good there was just nothing good about
Marvel Comics X-Men line people keep
telling me X-Men red is great no it
ain't people keep telling me Immortal
xed is great no it ain't you're
just reading all the other terrible
X-Men comic books and they're better
than the other bad stuff there have been
a couple of issues here there that
aren't bad in the year but for the most
part I just can't imagine an entire line
of comic books encompassing at a minimum
10 comic books a month and most of the
time going over 14 just being so
hideous and so puted across the board
but what else would you expect from
Jordan white and a legion of doofuses
this is the reason that they're
rebooting the series or the entire
franchise in 2024 this is the reason
that Jordan white isn't moving over to
Avengers he's not moving over to
Spider-Man he's not moving over to the
Star Wars line he's moving over to
special projects and when you think
about special projects let's say Bick
wants you to do a special comicbook
based on their lighters Jordan white is
going to be the one responsible for that
they're not going to let him do anything
with any characters that are important
anymore moving forward because he
screwed up the X-Men line so so
horrendously actually ran Jonathan
Hickman out of the room made him quit on
his X-Men story sat there and squatted
now they're trying to catch up until the
end of whatever Hickman had playing but
the ball had already been dropped and it
just got worse and worse there are a
couple of okay Riders left but basically
across the board it's just all filler
it's all crap comic book creators it's
like Steve Fox and Steve Orlando
and the worst of the worst comic book
writers you can possibly imagine and
they deserve the crown in 2023
hats off to you Jordan white I didn't
think you could actually ruin an A-list
franchise like you have but you actually
pulled off the impossible you made X-Men
not cool and you made it much harder for
Marvel Comics to do anything successful
with X-Men probably for the next 10
years as people have I don't know
 PTSD from reading your shitty
comic books for the last three or four
years and that is my lineup for the
worst comic books of 2023 I definitely
want to hear from you guys what did I
miss what did I leave out did I get them
in the right order or the wrong order
definitely let me know in the comments
section I want to know what you thought
was the worst comic book of the Year
2023 and if you are interested in
finding the Good comic books and the bad
comic books I would like to remind you
every Thursday on the channel we do a
podcast on the patreon with Jim from
Weird Science uh DC and Marvel CICS he
also does a lot of Manga reviews the guy
everything and we talk about everything
every single Thursday uh much earlier
than the best of the week uh video that
we do on Saturdays on the channel and we
talk about all the good stuff the bad
stuff if you want to avoid stuff like
this you're going to want to go and
support the patreon check out that
podcast every single Thursday that way
you don't pick up one of these Duds
because we'll give you the 411 a couple
of days ahead of time definitely check
that one out there is a a link in the
video description to the patreon as well
