do you have another job you work I work
three jobs yeah do you do any of them
well roll D1 scene one take one welcome
back to Breaking cool dork news
radargeek.net I'm a woefully underpaid
peon who was never given a name and
today I am joined by CEO of Horton
Studios Roger Horton hi I'm Roger Horton
yes well you you've now released over 30
blockbuster movies several of which are
kind of good how did the Horton
Cinematic Universe become the Juggernaut
it is today remember backless me to the
ancient days of 2008 when simple-minded
folk attended moving picture
establishments without asking how those
talkies fit into the broader
merchandising Empires I mean can you
imagine watching a movie without
immediately Googling spider Roger 3
ending explained plus sequel release
date
and I refuse to even try well as the
owner of five popular Horton Comic
characters plus several hundred other
characters the average American couldn't
name even with a gun to their head we
wanted to be sure the first Roger Man
movie would stand out instead of
rehashing the same tired rich man
dresses up as a flying mammal to punch
swarthy foreigners Trope he's right
behind me
Roger man is a story of a rich man who
dresses up as a robot to shoot swarthy
foreigners
yeah
[Music]
ah yes I see that now of course the real
trick was ensuring each subsequent hcu
movie felt distinct but thankfully we
nailed it
that just happened well that just
happened
that just happened
that just happened
[Music]
that just happened
that just happened that did just happen
amazing but how do you convince viewers
to come back for sequel after sequel
It's called The sunk cost of foul just
making great stuff Vision no
that just happened first we convinced
loyal readers of Horton Comics that
their dorky hobby was actually a
lifestyle then by constantly and
endlessly teasing upcoming hcu films
with bonus footage we hid behind the
scrolling in Memorial lists of special
effects serfs who starved to death
working on our digital Punch and Judy
shows we created a feedback loop of
precious precious hype by the time we
stop bothering to compose quality shots
are right competent dialogue we had
become so powerful that dweebs like you
were forced to dedicate most of their
websites to hcu coverage lest you go
bankrupt it's like that fable about
boiling a frog except you're the frog
and the water is attractive celebrities
in spandex saying that's going to leave
a mark never bring a squid to a magic
fight and on that note don't forget to
check out the 37 most coolest hcu
characters ranked by how awesomely
badass they are you'll rush to the
comments to cause stupid [ __ ] when
you see who's number four which only
helps our visibility in the algorithm
after the interviewer I won't be able to
feed my children this week but in the
meantime how do you respond to critics
who say that the hcu has gone a little
insane oh whoa hold on there true foe
every hcu film contains drama comedy and
a romance so sexless it will pucker your
genitalia until they Retreat inside you
Sun's going down big guy a few movies
even contained scenes scary enough to
shock the wimpier eight-year-olds out
there oh no it's a tricycle
[Music]
what is honored
it's a metaphor for my grief if that's
somehow not enough for Celluloid huffing
elitists we graciously allow movie
theaters to show upwards of two non-hcu
movies a day at either 11 A.M or 11 p.m
time slots perfect for the unemployed
milk Sops who think movies should make
you experience emotions or show you New
Perspectives as if we weren't the first
movie franchise that I'm aware of to
acknowledge that women and minorities
are people
that just happened you know I will admit
that movies that don't exclusively star
white 30 year old males make me
extremely obsessed wait until you learn
that hcu even briefly acknowledges that
gay people exist well in certain
countries
this reminds me of Budapest wow I think
that will literally make me kill myself
or more likely review bomb the movie on
Rotten Tomatoes well I angrily wiped
tears and snot off my keyboard tell me
what's next for the hcu oh I don't know
probably a half a dozen TV shows
featuring once promising talents will
entice with yacht money then lock deep
into bowels of our content Minds I am
excited for space Roger and to write an
article that says shocking space Roger
fan theory that we stole from Reddit
before 300 other identical competitors
write the exact same article we're gonna
get that scoop let me warn you whatever
you think is happening in that show it's
not because if we actually did the cool
thing you're thinking we're doing then
we'd have nothing to tease for future
releases by the way stay tuned for our
next video 45 massive earbud Origins
plot holes you missed plus the plot of
the novel I once streamed of writing
before such things became impossible
and before we go
say that the history
juvenile between working a job you hate
and lovingly rearing the next generation
of hcu fans you only get a few precious
hours a week to yourself do you really
want to challenge your mind with some
depressing crap War
do you want to put on soothing pablum
shove Oodles of popcorn Don your gullet
and play on your phone as you half watch
to CGI globules up into each other then
go online and demand we cast a hologram
of Heath Ledger as Aunt Roger so you can
feel like you're part of the creative
process
pretty neat ain't it it's called Art
and I wish people would give it more
credit well put I've been Roger and
remember
as Roger bot once said what are movies
corporate profits persevering that blind
gets me every time yeah sure whatever
you [ __ ] dweeb can somebody take this
[ __ ] off of me
unless you want me to take this with me
um camera's rolling here
