what's up Webheads welcome back to Comic
Book Corner 2.0 guys I just had a
hearing test done so like I'm in the
area where there's an Ollies and I've
never been to monalis before and a lot
of people say you can get comics and
cheap trades there so I'm gonna check it
out I'm gonna see what they have to
offer and maybe there'll be something to
pick up so let's check it out
so yeah there it is so I'm gonna go
inside and we're gonna see what books uh
they have and maybe get those mystery
packs and yeah I'll be back in a few
minutes maybe I'll show you some stuff
that they have inside
[Music]
thank you
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
all right guys as you can see I am
walking away from Ollie's and I actually
did get some stuff I did get mystery
packs uh they didn't have too many like
different ones and I didn't want to get
a bunch of the same book so I got like
three packs so I'm gonna check out I'm
gonna go in the car and then we're gonna
check out what we got as you can see
here is like a Superboy comic so I don't
know it says you can get books from like
the 70s 80s 90s so we'll go in the car
and uh we'll explore
all right guys so I'm in the car here we
go
mysterious Ollie's bag first time I've
ever been in The Hollies in my life I
don't know of all the locations look
like this one but this one was pretty
rough let me tell you uh they had a good
book section but they're like the rest
of the store was just in really rough
and bad shape looks like he actually
needed some help to work there and they
had just one box with those mystery
Comics as you can see in the footage of
the store and a lot of them had the same
like like one or two books in every
single pack I could have bought more but
I didn't want like 50 of the same book
right so I decided that I decided to go
with like three packs uh that's what I
went with so
we're gonna open them up and we're gonna
check them out so we're gonna start with
this one right here uh you can see that
the cost of this is six dollars and uh
you know these books they got some early
80s and I don't know so we'll see what
happens here so let's open up the first
time easy easy access to this books
right here I just like barely pulled the
package open uh but yeah it's a five
pack and uh let's see what we got here
so obviously you saw in the first back
there we got super boy uh the comic book
this is Issue four so don't know if
these books obviously have any like key
significant value to them but this is
old school stuff right here that's like
80s right so yep and then we got this
book from Marvel here the Warlock
Chronicles uh and then yes it's got
warlock in there and pip Patrol
um that's interesting I don't even know
if I've ever heard of that before uh
let's see if we can actually see the
comic inside it's got Gamora in there uh
so if I have any interesting books here
guys just let me know in the comments
below uh but yeah so there's that the
Warlock Chronicles then oh my gosh this
is from The New 52 we got Omak this is
issue five uh I think I had like the
first couple issues of Omak and then I
you know I sold them off but yeah
there's that which got uh agent
Frankenstein or something like that so
we got that one
and then we got uh The Adventures of
Superman annual this is issue one that's
a that's a pretty cool cover right there
this is this comic is this is rough we
got yellowed Pages like cream pages in
here like Lord knows how long these
things are sitting in a in a warehouse
or something like that like I wouldn't
know how Ollie's gets this stuff but wow
this is so funny man to see this old DC
stuff and then like like I showed you
here on the back side of it we had the
Green Lantern Corps issue 19 the Wrath
of the first Lantern part 10 is actually
a pretty good story there all right so
let's go forward here and let's see what
else we got we got the two other packs
here so
let's open this one up
it's fun this is fun if anything
I see some people pull out some decent
books out of those Ollie bags all the
mystery packs on like YouTube before I
was like oh let me check it out since
I'm right here all right then we got
Thor issue
467 got them dog years going on right
there
so there's that one
all right and then we have what the hell
is this
this is a Marvel comic US1
high adventure Trucking down the highway
have you guys ever ever heard of this in
your life let me know in the comments
below this is an old book though this
takes place in
1983. look at that oh my gosh I've never
heard of this you remember this ad
though
this smell too man they smell old look
at that oh that's freaking classic and
then we got Legion 89 this is issue nine
that's from DC Comics right there
oh my God some of these books man well
look at this it's got a poster inside
it's for this shocker or something like
that was that horror movie
yep that's cool
oh this is cool this is the best book so
far I feel like yeah for me Firestorm
the nuclear man this is issue 65. I love
Firestone I think he's a great character
and he's so underutilized in the DC
Universe this is a cool comic actually
these comics in good shape out of all of
them here here's some of the artwork in
here
so that's cool
all right and then we got that Green
Lantern book that I showed you so it's
probably one of the reasons why I picked
this one up because I was like well I
might as well get at least a Green
Lantern book and this is an older one so
that's Emerald Don uh two special two so
yeah there's that so that's kind of cool
all right then we got one more here so
let's see what we have in this one no
cool Marvel books nothing like that
let's see what happens here
I got another one with Thor in it so
I could have gotten a ton of those with
four so here we go
the Thor issue 467 this one is a little
bit better shape
and then we got this Underworld book
four issue miniseries this is Issue four
oh man I got some winners in this packs
man I don't even know what this is holy
cow and then we got omac
the omac project uh issue one six months
until Infinite Crisis
so there's that
some of the artwork in there
and then let's see what else we got here
boom
ah sweetie at least I got a war machine
comic War Machine issue two it's got
some poster or insert and it gives it
all kinds of like ticks in it oh look
so it comes with this um
Spider-Man card inside look it's like
this thing what is that dude I've never
seen that before I'm climbing the walls
without my master print send them now
dude that's crazy introducing Marvel
Master Prince so that's inside this
comic
that's weird
then we got the Green Lantern Corps
issued 39 so that's pretty cool cover
right there so yep that's it there was
my experience at Ollie's I got to show
you a little bit of the store uh nothing
fantastic in there I was hoping to maybe
get some really decent like 90s books
but yeah they didn't have that much to
choose from so hey it is what it is it
was fun it was an experience if you guys
ever been to Ollie's let me know in the
comments below tell me the stuff that
you got maybe some great Comics they did
have some good
um graphic novels for a cheap price some
hard paperback stuff but I was looking
for Marvel and they had mostly DC stuff
so if you love the content just go ahead
and click on the content I leave for you
right here and of course guys as always
keep buying keep collecting but most
importantly always read those Comics
guys I'll see you real soon take care
bye
