[Music]
comic
tropes hello welcome to Comic tropes I'm
your host Chris folks it's the end of
the year it's time to celebrate and what
better way to celebrate than to talk
about the best comics of
2023
all right enough of all that Tom Foolery
and chicanery look at that I got so
excited I knocked my own glasses off
folks I've got my annual top 10 list
this is pretty casual and informal keep
in mind I am just one person so this is
less a definitive list of the absolute
best Comics out there than my personal
opinion of out of all the comics I've
read this year the 10 that I would most
like to recommend to all of you that
said I'd still love to hear your
thoughts and opinions in the comments
below of what you thought the best
comics of the past year were without any
further Ado let's get into my top 10
list starting with number 10 number 10
Fantastic 4 Fantastic 4 at number 10
well I guess if I put some more thought
into this that should have been number
four but anyway I was kind of surprised
to see fantastic for just a regular
superhero comic make it into my top 10
list but there's a special reason for
that writer Ryan North has decided to
sort of reboot this run with an idea
towards creating single issue stories or
at most two issue long stories so we're
really starting at a nice level set and
getting to know these characters as
compared to diving into all sorts of
deep continuity or trying to build
something way more epic than what's gone
before and Fantastic 4 has a lot of good
runs you know you've got your Lee Kirby
era you've got your John burn era you've
got somebody like I really liked Walt
Simonson's era but Ryan North and to be
fair let's credit uh Ean Coello as the
Artist as well are really focusing on
the family element and the scientific
mystery elements of Fantastic 4 and I
think it's good to hang it on something
that simple every issue basically gives
you a scientific mystery Ryan North is
finding new and creative ways for the
Fantastic for to use their powers either
individually or together and it really
highlights their intelligence the fact
that they are explorers and scientists
as well as a family so there is some
family drama that I really
found relatable and interesting and
helped humanize these characters that
that are doing Larger than Life stuff if
you need a good example of what I'm
talking about with a single issue
mystery I really recommend Issue Number
10 especially in that one we've
basically got this alien civilization
where they're on an incredibly long trip
so they're all in stasis one person is
alive per generation to Pilot the ship
and each of them seems to encounter the
Fantastic Four briefly in a very
horrifying way as for why well that's
the mystery and I'll let you decide for
yourself if it's any good but I really
am enjoying this uh as a comic book run
it's easy to jump in get a great story
and feel like you got a full story by
the time you finish the final page
number nine Miracle
Man it was about 25 years ago that
writer Neil gaimon and artist Mark
Buckingham began a run on miraclean
following Alan Moore but it was cut
short and I'm not going to get into the
whole history of that that's really an
episode in and of itself what's
important is that last year they were
finally able to tell their story and
where so much time has passed Mark
Buckingham actually redid all of his
artwork and some of the fascinating
stuff about the early issues in this new
run which is subtitled the Silver age is
that you actually get to see the current
art you read the story and then at the
back there is the original art and you
get to see the the choices that an
artist is making with these Decades of
time to improve and hone their craft uh
just beautiful storytelling looks
fantastic something interesting to note
about Miracle Man the Silver age is that
while it has superheroes it really is
more of a Sci-Fi story it's got an
outsider coming into a supposed utopian
society and it it shows that our world
as messed up as it is still gives us
Free Will and how in a lot of ways that
can be preferable to a supposed perfect
Society where everything is dictated and
there's no choice in the matter so
that's kind of fascinating to look at
it's really a beautiful story I'm so
excited that Miracle Man was able to
come back and continue in this way
number eight animal
pound coming in just as the year ends
writer Tom King and artist Peter Gross
give us animal pound just the first
issues out I'm already fascinated this
is an update on George Orwell's famous
animal farm and that is an
ambitious subject to tackle you know
there there's some hubris going on there
that you think hey I can update and
potentially improve this but they are
doing a few things different ly first of
all Orwell's Animal Farm took place on a
farm and it was really about the dangers
of Communism um we're in a different era
now this takes place in an animal
shelter in the modern day and seems to
be hinting at because there's only one
issue out that's why I say hinting at uh
it seems to be hinting at the dangers of
letting our own democracy get away from
us the problems that can be inherent
with governor ourselves if we're not
careful and that we don't really keep
our eyes on our
politicians uh plus this deals with pets
cats dogs and rabbits and I think that
there's just automatically going to be
an emotional connection to those animals
so this is not a fun story this is
pretty somber stuff we automatically
care about these animals we don't want
to see them get hurt or hurt each other
this is a story ultimately about freedom
freedom of choice freedom to rule
yourself freedom from oppression and
slavery uh and it's heartbreaking just
to think of animals thinking in those
terms but it is an interesting way to
look at government it's a serious issue
Peter gross's art is gorgeous the
animals look very realistic but they're
still Dynamic it's not stiff at all it
really makes it relatable and human
which is kind of ironic when you think
that we are of course following Animals
number seven human target yeah second
book in a row by Tom King uh what can I
say this year especially really did make
me appreciate Tom King's writing so your
mileage may vary there but I think he's
doing a lot of interesting things in
limited series that allow us to have a
beginning a middle and an end human
target is a really interesting murder
mystery really that's the framework on
which we're hanging a doomed love story
so I felt that it was more of a romantic
comedy although it's framed
investigating a murder mystery but
here's the thing the pacing isn't
honestly perfect for this it isn't
perfect it's interesting the dialogue is
great the characterizations are great
what really sells this is Greg
smallwoods artwork some of the best of
his career gorgeous gorgeous artwork uh
really reminds you of a lot of that'
60s uh advertising American advertising
the height of you know Americana and
stuff it was just it was beautiful
artwork in and of itself and there's a
lot of that placed on these uh
characters uh the human target himself
ice and a lot of the other Justice
League International
members uh it just
every character looks different every
character is expressive and I I don't
know I've never seen a character like
ice this you know innocent young anenu
who's in over his head look more
beautiful and it's just some gorgeous
artwork so I'm really telling you that
while the story is good you know you
you'd be left uh very cold if you were
reading a bad story
it's the art that makes this fall into
my top 10 number six Riddler year one
Riddler year one a stunning companion
piece to Matt Reeves movie The Batman
written by the actor who played The
Riddler in that movie Paul Dano and
normally I'm like look it's cool if
celebrities love Comics maybe they even
have an interesting idea a lot of times
they'll need a co-write or something
well no not in this case in this case
Paul Dano wrote this book and it really
fleshes out his character in a
fascinating way that actually elevates
the movie The Riddler is an absolutely
fascinating character here uh Gotham
City itself is basically a character a
character that corrupts and beats down
this man this man who's uncovering the
corruption of Gotham City you see that
he has good intentions Paul Doo
apparently wrote a character study for
himself s so that he could really
believe in his own character and he
decided to write it as a comic book
script as compared to just a journal or
something like that and eventually some
editors saw it and they were like this
is good let's actually turn it into a
comic and thank God they did it is
sincerely just a great great corruption
Thriller and the artwork by Steven
subich I might be mispronouncing his
name it's good it's um a little more
more
impressionistic and angular and dark but
that really helps with the mood the tone
and really selling just how how how
Bleak and dark this city can be and and
how much it can ruin people but I
sincerely think that while it's a great
comic in and of itself reading this it
it just made the movie and my
appreciation of the movie increase that
much more I think that that's a pretty
rare feat I think Ridley year one is
something special number five local man
Tim cely and Tony fleeks are probably
best known as writers in comics but
they're also artists and they're working
together to write and draw local man
which is about a superhero that goes
through something shameful he's kicked
off of his team called third gen and
this guy crossjack has to basically
Retreat to small town of America to live
with his parents he's embarrassed
ashamed and that's just the beginning of
a mystery a mystery to like uncover all
sorts of Secrets from his former team
and of his town but what's best about
this is that this uses Image Comics
history as its playground it's published
through image and it's specifically set
in that vaguely shared '90s image
universe so this is a world where the
wild cats exist for instance and the
team that crossjack is on it definitely
plays into a lot of those tropes and
then finds ways to subvert them and find
a way to make things grounded but
there's always a main story set in the
modern day with Jack living with his
parents dealing with all sorts of weird
 and then there's also a backup
story set somewhere in Cross Jack's past
that really plays into all of the '90s
image artistic excess but finds a way to
help us understand the character better
as well it's just an amazing meta
commentary on Image Comics itself but
with a really likable flawed protagonist
at its heart a guy who is essentially
something close to say Hawkeye he's a
guy who can find the potential in any
object and make it dangerous so you know
he can throw with perfect accuracy a lot
of the time that's what it amounts to uh
but he's also just a normal guy he does
not have flight or super strength on top
of that so he can get in over his head
when he deals with other superpowered
beings just a total surprise and I'm so
glad I found it a great balance of humor
action and Intrigue number four Wonder
Woman Wonder Woman what a true surprise
a character I like okay but it's never
necessarily been my personal favorite
this run is fantastic and it is yes the
third book written by Tom King I am not
trying to pick favorites here he's had a
good year the cool thing about this
Wonder Woman run beyond the incredible
artwork by Daniel sampier is that it's a
conspiracy thriller so take you know the
best stuff of X Files and put Wonder
Woman into it Wonder Woman is trying to
figure out a mystery where an Amazon has
killed a bunch of men and therefore it
gave the US justification to kick
Amazon's out of the country and Hunt
Wonder Woman down so she's a Superhero
on the run like classic 1970s Incredible
Hulk Wonder Woman herself comes across
really interesting she's incredibly
powerful incredibly capable Royal
beautiful insanely compassionate you
know really you can see the frustration
in her but she gives people every inch
that she can to try to work things out
and if that doesn't go well she's more
than capable of backing things up in a
fight um I really like the most recent
Issue four where even while being hunted
she took some time out to give a dying
child a beautiful day sort of a make a
wish type thing uh Daniel sers artwork
is intricate it's highly detailed but
it's remarkably consistent I feel like
this is the most beautiful Wonder Woman
has ever looked but she also looks
powerful and the action and stuff is
very Dynamic it is not stiff or overly
referenced at all so it's just this
great combination of a cool new premise
for the character some of it the best
art that it's had and that is saying
something when people like George Perez
have worked on Wonder Woman I did like
his run quite a bit this is just
something that I'm eating right up I
love it it also gives her a new enemy
that's a cool opposite where it's this
creepy old man called The Sovereign who
seems to be the secret King of the
United States and he does that with the
power of the lasso of Lies so very much
an opposite to Wonder Woman's lasso of
truth I don't know exactly where it's
going and that's part of the fun it's
surprising me every issue I need that in
a superhero book I really recommend it
number three where the body was so Ed
Brewbaker and Sean Phillips I have said
before they are my favorite team in
comics and yeah this is number three not
number one but I love these folks they
can do no wrong uh I think that they can
do crime fiction standing on their heads
which is what made this book a pleasant
surprise yes it's framed in as though
it's a murder mystery but really that is
just the structure to tell a story about
first loves and often how they're
imperfect so this is also said in the80s
a time when Ed Brewbaker the writer was
growing up it's set in a suburb in
America so it's very relatable stuff
especially to somebody like me that's a
little older you know your mileage there
may vary totally get that but it's got a
great great crime Thriller and yet it's
not necessarily quite as dark as some of
their other stuff like books like
criminal or pulp or even what was it um
night breed or something like that that
came out earlier this year which was
good just this gives us something a
little bit different because the romance
is very relatable and believable it
isn't about a fem fatal tricking a
private eye or anything like that it's
real people in a sub subb it's got a
wide cast of characters and you could
probably find a little bit of yourself
in each of them and you're also going to
be wondering can I trust any of these
characters or is one of them somehow a
murderer really beautiful looking and
funto read book you will go through this
so fast I'm so happy that this team is
at a point where they just put out a
full story all at once instead of the
floppies it's just a very satisfying way
to read a story love it number two
transformers this is probably the
biggest surprise for me folks but yes a
licensed book is my number two pick of
the year I love Transformers growing up
haven't really been into them as much as
an adult but I do love Daniel Warren
Johnson he's the writer and artist here
and boy does he make this book fun if I
just need to boil it down to one word to
describe why I'm recommending this book
fun but if you'll allow me to get a
little bit more in
detail it reads with interesting
characters and it looks gorgeous the
pacing is fantastic the action scenes
know exactly when to pull out things
like a two-page spread to emphasize a
big story beat where else but with giant
robots could you come across an action
scene where the character in a move of
desperation rips off his own arm and
uses it as a flail against his opponent
that's That's Unique that's exciting
that's unexpected also unexpected at
least if you didn't know Daniel Warren
Johnson all the pro wrestling moves have
you ever wanted to see Optimus Prime
pick up you know skywarp and pull off a
burning hammer on him do you want to see
suplexes and stuff like that with robots
well I'll tell you something even if you
didn't think you did you do because it
really sells an incredible amount of
impact and also the scale of these
characters uh it finds a way to make the
characters likable that's why the action
works is because the characters are
interesting and likable the human
characters Spike Carly sure I like them
it's a new take on them it's great what
I love the most is Optimus Prime himself
this is not the Optimus Prime that we
saw in the liveaction movies
unfortunately that was never really the
Optimus Prime I wanted to see the
Optimus Prime I know came from those
original cartoons in the80s and even the
file card on the back of his toy where
he would say freedom is the right of all
sensient beings this Optimus Prime is
compassionate and loving and he wants to
protect those that are weaker than him
he feels that that's a responsibility I
think that that's pretty noble and
heroic I cannot recommend this title
enough it is a blast do yourself a favor
and check it out honorable mentions
there's so many great books out this
year and I just want to shout some of
them out you know it would be very easy
to list things like Daredevil Saga
radiant black the sacrificers what else
am I seeing up here world's finest um
the Enfield gang
Massacre Sirens of the City by Joanne
sterer and Carrie
Randol oh and if I look at manga stuff
like spy family or what else um
asadora great great books easily I could
have reshuffled my list a little and put
some of those in there there's been tons
of great books again I'd love to hear
some of your recommendations below but
let's go with my number one pick number
one
Monica a new Daniel CLA book is always
going to be interesting Daniel Claus the
guy who you may know from things like
Ghost World boy does he make interesting
comics and Monica is no exception this
is a big thick book about an ordinary
woman Monica who is struggling to find
meaning in her life she believes that
she is special and she tries to find a
way to prove that she's special we
follow her throughout her life is she
special because of her family situation
where her mother basically abandoned her
at a very young age is she special
because of her creativity and her
business Acumen when she starts her own
company she joins a cult it goes through
so many different eras of her life and
ultimately she seems to come to the
conclusion that she's willing to accept
that maybe she's not so special and then
just to be clear the story totally
upends things in the final panel and the
back interior
covers I won't show you that what I will
say is CLA is a master Storyteller uh
very interesting story about This
Woman's life it reads very easily some
of the stuff seemed a little in
congruous to me at first we would follow
a Side Story of something that was
seemingly unrelated but by the end I
realized Monica is a Storyteller and
these are likely her stories which we
can tell if we look really closely
because the background paper is slightly
darker yellow than her stories which are
a bright white I think that that's an
indication and yet there are
thematic moments that are happening in
these stories that help us understand
her life because here's the other thing
she's a Storyteller and Monica is
telling this story she's an unreliable
narrator we know that because the first
chapter ends with her saying that she
never saw her mother again and that she
lived a happy life but then we learned
that no she had some miserable stuff go
on in her life she was in a coma for
years and she absolutely finds her
parents it's just crazy how many ups and
downs emotionally this book takes you
through and when I talk about the
emotions here's the thing with the
Daniel cla's book you need to know going
in he is very comfortable giving you
some Awkward characters that go through
some really cringy stuff and it can seem
a little cold and distant right he keeps
you at arms length from his characters
in a lot of ways but they're very
relatable when they go through those
moments we're like oh I've had awkward
terrible things like that happened to me
so even though it's sort of awkward
you're like you know what I can see
myself in that and it's nice to know
that this is a shared experience
something that other human beings go
through so as as weird and off-putting
as some of the moments can be there's
also something that makes you feel a
little better about
yourself I could go into a lot more but
I'd have to spoil things so I'm going to
leave it there and just say I truly
recommend Monica it was a book that at
first I was like o this is a little
rough and I could not stop thinking
about it afterwards so there we go
that's my top 10 list was not easy to
put together I'm totally open to being
argued or debated or discussed
with as to what else should have been in
that list please let me know and I just
want to say before we start the new year
thank you for watching this show thank
you if you've ever you know left a
comment hit the like button hit
subscribe that stuff all really helps
and a huge thank you to my supporters on
both YouTube and patreon wouldn't have
been able to do this without you that's
that's the God's honest truth and uh I
will leave it there I'll be be back soon
with another episode you'll probably see
me in the credits if you watch to the
end but until I see you next time keep
reading
comics
ready oh well folks I just shot off
confetti but I shot it
downwards so that wasn't too exciting
whoops uh let's just hope 2024 is good
to all of us uh 2023 has been probably
tough for a lot of us in many ways as we
navigate what becomes The New Normal uh
that said I see a lot of promising
things on the horizon for Comics I'm
curious to see what trends you see
coming out but I definitely see an
increasing popularity in manga an
increasing popularity in all ages books
and an increasing popularity in digital
Comics reading uh with a digital reader
there's no question those are all things
that will be on the rise I don't
anticipate in 2024 we'll see any big
shifts though away from traditional
floppy superhero type Comics or the
specialty comic book stores but I do
hope that at some point
retailers Publishers Distributors and
readers can start having some really
good honest open convers ations to try
to figure out if there are some better
ways that we can get comic books out
there to a wider audience uh in a more
efficient or more affordable way try to
make sure that there's something out
there for everybody uh because at the
end of the day I personally just love
the medium more than anything else you
know um I have a nostalgic affection for
some characters like Spider-Man or
Superman but mostly I follow creators at
this point and I'm curious to see what
different writers and artists do um and
I want them to have the biggest audience
possible thank you so much for following
me this year I can't wait to bring you
more content next year my pledge to you
going to try to up the overall quality
and we'll see if I can do something
creative in the meantime all right folks
thanks so much
[Music]
bye
[Music]
w
