2023 will not go down as a banner year
for comic books regarding sales but
there were good comic books out there
and I'm certainly here to help uh
identify what the best comic books are
if you're still a fan and you want to
avoid a lot of the crap that's out there
obviously I'll have a worst of 2023 in
the next day or two but today we're
going to talk about the very best stuff
and there were a lot of comic books that
I couldn't even fit on the list things
like Rogue Sun joke fix it a moonight
strange Academy finals Action Comics Jay
gck flash void Rivals the mighty
barbarians Titans Beast world more of
the Jungle TM Saturday morning
adventures all com books that I enjoyed
throughout the year but just weren't
quite good enough to make the top 10
list because this is the Crim de la CRM
the best of the best the C books that if
you missed them throughout 2023 I do
suggest you go back and read them CU
they're absolutely fantastic now let's
get it started with number 10 on the
list ice cream man from Image Comics W
Maxwell Prince Martin mazaro on this
series here if you have not been reading
ice cream man basically it's an
anthology series in the vein of like a
Twilight Zone every single issue is a
new story that is horror themed and it's
absolutely fantastic W Maxwell Prince is
kind of like a comic book genius he's
absolutely incredible at developing
these stories and they always have like
a little morality tale within them and
every single month that they deliver one
of these comic books it absolutely
knocks it out of the park Martin
Mazzaro's art always delivers on this
series and there's so many weird funny
little things that go into there and I
do believe most people if you read ice
cream man uh throughout the year there's
going to be two or three issues
especially that really resonate with you
because he is touching on so many
different topics within that series and
if you've not been reading that you are
missing out on probably the best horror
series in all of comic books and there
are a lot of good horror series out
there ice cream man from Image Comics W
Maxwell Prince Martin mazaro absolutely
one of the best comic books of 2023 in
my opinion now let's move on to number
nine The Incredible Hulk from Marvel
Comics Philip Kennedy Johnson Nick
kleene this has been a breath of fresh
air since Donnie Kate's Hulk run just
kind of went into Oblivion we're going
back to the horror roots of the
Incredible Hulk himself obviously with
that Superhero spin on it and the
nicklin art is absolutely Sublime in
this if you like good horror visuals if
you like amazing monsters if you like
seeing the transformation of Bruce Bader
into the Hulk and then back to Bruce
Bader and how horrific it is that is
incapsulated in here it's a little bit
too much a monster of the week so far
and I do believe as long as Philip
Johnson keeps building up the mythology
on the story that is telling that in
2024 as long as the quality is still
there and Nick Klein is on most of the
issues this series will make a gigantic
leap in 2024 because the quality is
there they're building towards something
they just haven't quite gotten to where
it's absolutely spectacular because we
haven't gotten the big big reveals about
what's going on with the Incredible Hulk
and Bruce bayner as now he's a a vagabon
he's a nomad going throughout like the
southeast or whatever trying to avoid
all the troubles in his past and he's
got a little girl with him her name is
Charlie and her dream is to have the
powers of the Hulk will that happen in
2024 I have a feeling that it might I
just have a feeling on that one number
eight Green Lantern DC Kobo Jeremy Adam
Zer Monaco on Art I am an enormous Green
Lantern head I absolutely love that
character and Jeremy Adams is once again
doing it right in fact I would say his
flash one minute war that last flash
event he did before he was removed from
the Flash series
also Jay Garrick The Flash is also
fantastic but Green Lantern is the best
series from Jeremy Adams if you're a fan
of how Jordan if you're a fan of Green
Lantern lore this is the comic book for
you another series that I do believe in
2024 will be much higher on the list
because he's just now really starting to
flesh out the story unfortunately Green
Lantern was interrupted for two or three
months because of Night Terrors which
was a complete waste of time and really
derailed the momentum of green lader
that Jeremy Adams had he's got some
really cool stuff going on in Green
Lantern how Jordan has a new power ring
now we're not sure exactly what's going
on there and it appears the emotional
spectrum is a little out of whack
obviously building up to bigger and
better things and I'm not the only
person that thinks green laner was
fantastic in 2023 Mark Miller actually
said this was his number one comic book
for the entire year and I can't blame
him I'm just waiting for a little bit
more from Jeremy Adams green Lan and run
before I really start putting it up
there because I can see where he's going
and I cannot wait till he gets there Z
monico's also doing doing a fantastic
job on that series a breath of fresh air
after Jeff Thorne's kind of failed green
ler run definitely happy to have Jeremy
Adams AB Board of one of my favorite
characters and he's quickly becoming a
stamp of approval when Jeremy Adams
shows up on your favorite character
you're probably gonna get a damn good
comic book take that one to the bank at
number seven Batman and the Joker The
Deadly Duo DC Comics Mark sylvestri
Writing and illustrating this one this
is a comic I think they had um announced
maybe 10 years ago eight years ago or
something like that it felt like we were
never ever gonna get this Mark Sylvester
Batman series and it finally arrived and
shockingly it actually lives up to the
hype don't believe Mark sylvestri ain't
got it anymore if you look at the
visuals in this comic book Mark
sylvestri still has it in Spades and it
turns out he's a pretty darn good writer
as well it was so refreshing seeing the
characters within the Batman ecosphere
actually being written in character this
is the best Harley Quinn that I've read
probably in 5 years maybe a little bit
longer than that for some reason a lot
of the writers at DC copics just don't
have a good voice for Harley Quinn Mark
sylvestri has it and a lot of people
could learn some things there now we do
get a fun Batman teamup book with the
Joker with lots of reveals and
everything happening this thing would
absolutely be higher on the list if it
actually meant a little bit more
obviously it's a miniseries it's kind of
out of continuity and I wish uh DC
Comics could get a great creator like
mark sylvestri on a Batman book and put
it in continuity because it would mean
so much to the character and to the fans
and to the universe to get actual good
competent writers and Mark sylvestri on
Batman and the Joker The Deadly Duo was
a lot of fun I hope he comes back and
this thing just was absolute Dynamite if
you haven't checked that one out it's a
minseries the trade's already out there
and you missed out on a lot of fun and I
can't believe it DOC is the biggest Mark
sylvestri fan in the world but he's
abstaining from comic book so he didn't
even read it yet but he's going to come
back and he's going to discover one hell
of a great Batman comic at number six
the Enfield gang Massacre Image Comics
Chris Conan Jacob Phillips you will
probably recognize those names if you
read that Texas Blood another series
that was basically a western a couple of
years ago that was pretty darn good and
I think they may have U the Annie here
with the Enfield gang Massacre Jacob
Phillips obviously a relation to Sea
Phillips the famed writer that teams up
with Ed Brew Baker and you can see that
Within in the art here it feels like a
good oldfashioned fun Western with a
really cool mystery in here we've got a
business owner that's dead they're
blaming the infield gang and they need
to prove their innocence as we're
getting uh conflicting stories and
things are kind of all coming together
now cuz there's one more issue till we
get to the end but there is a lot of
Bloodshed in this comic book there's a
lot of double crossing there's a lot of
bad things going on here and they're
absolutely being set up they're being
framed and basically everyone's going
down because of this thing because there
are some deep
dark dirty secrets in that little town
and I just think it's a fantastic
Western I've been a western fan my
entire life I just love the movies and
I'm glad that we finally got just an
amazing Western comic book can we get
some more of these please Chris Conan
Jacob Phillips anytime they come out
with something I'm going to be reading
it because they've knocked it out of the
park two times in a row now and I know
exactly what I'm going to be getting a
fantastic Western comic book with a lot
of Thrills and Revelations and really
bloody a gory art to go with it a lot of
fun to be had there next up at number
five Transformers from skybound Daniel
Warren Johnson writing and illustrating
this one and this has been a great
series unfortunately we're only three
issues in or I do believe this would
probably be in the top two I don't think
it can make number one asz my number one
probably was unbeatable at least in 2023
but Transformers from Danel Warren
Johnson is everything I wanted in a
Transformers comic book when they
announced that the Hasbro license was
going over to skybound obviously Robert
Kirkman comic book Legend in charge of
skybound apparently has an affinity for
the Transformers in GI Joe and obviously
we got the Big T's and Boyd Rivals
another great series written by Robert
Kirkman and me personally Daniel Warren
Johnson just took it up like five
notches on this bad boy we're seeing
Optimus Prime giving people freaking
German suplexes we saw him rip his own
arm off and beat somebody to death with
it and it's very much in homage to the
origin original Transformers cartoon but
they're upping the stakes the Annie's
been upped a whole lot more and there is
a mystery out there what the hell
happened to Megatron because he's not
there and we got to find out what
happened there and it's a lot of fun the
only disappointing thing about this
Transformers run from Daniel Warren
Johnson is that he's not on for the Long
Haul he's only going to do so many
issues before someone else takes over
but I'm absolutely enjoying it so so
much fun if you're a fan of Daniel
Warren Johnson as a writer and artist
and I'm a huge fan I think he's probably
the better best writer artist of his
generation
this is the series from you and if you
are a Transformers fan and you've not
discovered the Transformers under
skybound you need to fix yourself and
find this comic book so much fun so much
action and when you read the characters
you can hear the voices from the cartoon
and that's when you know he really
knocked it out of the park Danny Warren
Johnson continues to amaze in 2023 at
number four we have the sacrificers from
Image Comics Rick Remer Max buera on
this one this is an original take on
original characters something Rick
remender is known for this is one of the
reasons he decided not to go to Xmen he
decided not to go and write Batman
because Rick remender is doing giant
generator creating his own stuff and the
sacrifices almost came out of nowhere I
had actually kind of forgotten about
Rick remender he hasn't had a really
great Series in a few years I remember
he had scumbag and some people like that
I thought it was awful this is the kind
of Ricker I like it it's kind of dark
we've got a group of young people that
are being sacrificed to the gos and we
see the the after effects of their
families and what they're going through
having to kind of give their children
away to be offered up they become this
um I don't want to give too much away
they're basically going to be used to
make something to honor the gods and you
can see the behind the scenes kind of
politicking of the Gods as there's
infighting and all these things
happening as you're discovering what's
really in store for these young people
we've got pigeons we've got killer whale
people we've got jid people and and they
have all been set up for something that
is very very dirty if you have not been
reading the sacrificers it's absolutely
amazing and the sacrificers letter page
was actually named by Jim from Weird
Science because he's a big fan he had a
write in he wanted to name the letter
pages and there's a reason Rick Remer at
one point felt like he was going to be
one of the next enormous Superstars and
it's because of stories like the
sacrificers I'm glad he's staying on the
Indie scene I I would love to see him do
Batman and X-Men but it's prob best for
him to do his own stories where he can
do his own dark takes and he doesn't do
anything without getting very dark
hopefully some of these characters get a
big wi soon because it's been getting
darker and darker and darker in that
series and the art from Maxa has been
absolutely fantastic on that one some
really good ideas and creativity going
on in that series definitely check out
the sacrifices I think it's ongoing and
we're really getting into some of the
dirty stuff in 2024 at number three
Batman Superman world's finest DC Comics
mark Dan MOA my number one combo book
for the year of 2022 is back now it's
not quite as outstanding as it was in
2022 because there have been some filler
stories and filler issues but we're
right now getting into the return to
Kingdom Come that wonderful story that
everyone remembers from Mark Wade and
Alex Ross obviously you got Dora on the
art this time and I won't be talking
about this one in 2024 because I have
sworn off of Mark Wade I'm off the mark
Wade bandwagon I'm no longer going to
support him because I've just had enough
of the but I have to admit I've read the
comic books and Batman Superman world's
finest was easily the best series from
either Marvel or DC the best of the best
when it comes to DC CICS still an
outstanding series with outstanding art
and really a lot of great homages and
tributes to the Silver age of DC CICS
and it's definitely deserves its spot on
the list at number three and it's just
too bad that Mark Wade is so
insufferable that I can't continue on
this thing but thankfully there are
better things out there and now let's
talk about the top two comic books in my
opinion for 2023 coming in at number two
the big Revelation Conan the Barbarian
from Titan Comics Jim Zu Roberto De laor
on this one and if you remember Jim Zub
in his time at Marvel Comics he was
always the guy for some reason that if a
series was about to get cancelled or if
it was on its last legs and there was a
bigger writer that didn't want to finish
it they would just have Jim Zub kind of
come in and finish off the thing and he
never really got an opportunity to do
anything amazing and he finally gets on
this code in the Barbarian from Titan
Comics obviously the the license moved
from Marvel Comics over to Titan and
this thing has just been so amazing and
I love Conan the Barbarian the movie I
love the con and the Barbarian Tales
from Robert E Howard I love the con and
the Barbarian comic books from Marvel
originally then obviously Dark Horse and
there's been so many great adaptations
of the original Robert ehh Howard
stories into comic books and they've
always fantastic get great art across
the board and this is Jim's up basically
taking the spirit of what Robert E
Howard created with Conan and kind of
doing new stories in different times and
places in Conan's life and the art from
Roberto De tour is really the thing that
stands out here you know the story by
Jim up absolutely fantastic but the art
like it feels like you're in the 80s
again the art is so fantastic it feels
like you're reading the best of the best
when it comes to coning the Barbarian
comic books and Roberto deor should be
an absolute Superstar I know they
switched out artists recently and I
believe he is going to come back for the
next story arc but I cannot get enough
that Roberto deor art on conen the
Barbarian if you like Roberty Howard and
the tale of the samarians and all that
kind of stuff and all the magic and
mysticism and all the things that go
into making Conan the Barbarian stories
amazing you will like this series and
we're getting more Conan the Barbarian
in 2024 not just with the mainlight
series we're also going to get a Savage
sort of Conan series as well and it
feels like they're going to be expanding
out and out and out with all this stuff
now they've had a lot of success with
this Conan series and it's been welld
deserved really is elevating Titan
Comics as a publisher they' done some
really cool stuff in the past but this
is easily the best comic book I've ever
seen them put out it's absolutely
phenomenal ongoing Series in Jim Zu is
he going to become a superstar I'm not
really sure we'll see if he gets those
breaks but he feels like he could be a
superstar on coding the Barbarian and
it's just been absolutely fantastic
deservingly as the number two Series in
all of 2023 now it's time to get to my
number one comic book series of 2023 I'm
cheating here I had to do a couple of
things otherwise the entire list was
going to be dominated by Mark Miller
we're just going to say Miller World in
general is the best comic series of 2023
the ambassadors Nemesis reloaded
nightclub the magic order all
culminating with big game from Image
Comics now they are going to be moving
over to Dark Horse in 2024 we've got
Mark Miller Mato Scalera Mato bangi
Olivier Kil Travis shereé Carl kersel
Frank qule J menz juen Ramirez and pepe
LZ some of the best artists in the
entire industry have been working with
this man all year and Mark Miller
literally did not have a dud I don't
think there was one issue of any of
those series that we did not recommend
in our best of the week series that we
do every Saturday on the channel and it
was welld deserved Mark Miller got us
through some very very dark days in
comic books in 2023 by continuously
putting out amazing comic books all at
the same time I think we had three
different Mark Miller Series going at
once as we're leading up to big game and
obviously big game was the huge one
where we got all these new characters
interacting with the old characters that
Mark Miller hasn't even written I think
for like 15 years whatever and it all
came together we got one we got Empress
we got kickass we got the kingsman we
got Huck we got everything in one comic
book and it just felt like this amazing
celebration of Miller world and really
like a love letter to Infinity War as
well as endgame you can definitely tell
that Mark Miller has an affinity for the
MCU and really wanted do something to
kind of highlight how amazing that story
was and he kind of does it with his own
characters in his own unique way it's
Mark Miller it's much darker it's much
bloodier there's a lot more death
there's also a an enormous light at the
end of the tunnel and an enormous
elevation for the character of kickass
who a lot of people know and love from
the series and I just think he knocked
it out of the park I just can't imagine
any writer having a better year than
Mark Miller did in 2023 what a resurgent
yes he never really left he's always
been good but my goodness he really
upped his game and everything came
together at the perfect time with the
perfect comic book event that Marvel and
DC have not touched in a long time I'm
enjoying Beast world it's worth
mentioning and certainly worth
considering as one of the best comic
books of 2023 only two issues in Beast
world did not even come close to
touching anything that was happening in
big game and I think Beast world is
probably the best DC Comics event that
they've had in probably like four or
five years that's how good I think Beast
world has started out we'll see if they
can nail the landing on that one
obviously Mark Miller nailed the landing
with big game and it was just the
culmination of so many amazing things as
he gets ready to take his uh comic book
properties over to Dark Horse we're
getting amazing Library editions a lot
of these stories and I'm going to be
going on the patreon once a week we're
going to be doing the Miller World read
through with our Comics Guild starting
with wanted number one concluding with
big game number five it's going to be on
the uh past the helmet tier of P Paton
the $5 tier that we do have and I do
want to encourage you to go check out
the patreon there's a link in the video
description we're going to be doing a
lot of great stuff we're also going to
be doing a read through of the planetary
series from Warren Ellis as well on the
patreon and there's also three other
comic book podcast that we put out every
single week with erod Sparrow doc Jim
from Weird Science all of your favorite
guests on thinking critical and uh
definitely congratulations to Mark
Miller and I really appreciate the good
work sir and hopefully a better 2024 as
what
