foreign
guys after a long drive I am here at my
second comic book show I'm in Bristol
Connecticut at the big cliffcon this is
a monthly comic book show usually at a
small VFW in Plainville well a couple
times a year they have a Big Show in the
big hotel there's like 75 vendors here
let's go check it out
hey guys I'm here with the Cliff of
clifcon how you doing good thank you
tell me about a little bit about the Big
Show Big Show we have 75 tables uh
Comics Pokemon toys Barrett Letty uh
Pokemon voice actors here today signing
autographs Mitch from terrificon is
selling tickets Matt Ryan's freelance
Studio doing free caricatures earlier in
the day we had a Spider-Man stop by
Mandalorian uh Star-Lord taking pictures
with all the kids it's been a great day
I got here a little late but I'm happy I
got here at all and I definitely got to
check out all these veterans I'm also
over here with Gary of uh Gary's comics
and movies another fellow YouTuber how
you doing Gary how you doing all right
let's go check it out okay
Steve's Place guys
cool
he's here Rich
you're a good books
wow this is much bigger
um
wow Christmas fish are on a 9.0 no of
course that'd be sick wow yeah oh
absolutely I have the uh the reprint of
it what is it Avengers 2 ah number two
number two hard to find in a six five
not bad wow
white page copy wow
yeah classic Iron Man and the clunky
armor oh yeah
these are in reserve you guys do layaway
that's crazy all right this is the one
I'm kind of interested
I look at these from you guys every
single time because I love them so much
foreign
[Music]
X-Men number 12. awesome and I try to
get like seven five or above yeah I can
it's close yep number five oh yeah I now
need only number two for a full run oh
really you know I got one yeah I know oh
and here's the oh can I see this I have
this on reserve oh you're picking this
up next time drool worthy for me awesome
that's beautiful copy too yeah very nice
thank you for that oh yeah yep
um from my other copies yep first roll
me to artwork from Marvel oh there you
go actually I didn't know that one
really yeah I went through my Captain
America one which I thought I had a full
run and then I saw that I was missing
yep 132. I did my shelf for a while but
like behind me and then you can see it
no that's but it has a much better copy
mine is writing on it that's beautiful
let's go 87 I have now completed my Neil
Adams Green Lantern that is a great
congratulations seven five what a nice
book foreign
oh yeah well no happy you found me
well thanks to Dad yeah
it's a really good price but it's uh
it's missing someplace
it's not in great shape but it's worth
five bucks Josh
and knowing that you're uh an X-Men guy
from the 90s oh yeah the first from the
cartoon man you got it you got to give
that in a giveaway I'll absolutely put
this in a giveaway yeah man I love it
I'm gonna read it myself and then I'll
give it away there you go awesome thanks
Josh
yeah and here might as well just take a
card thank you Sasquatch does the
official name now all right yeah there
it is absolutely thanks Josh appreciate
it man yeah dude it's good to see you
I like Oddball color lips
no way
cool
all right guys uh been a long day I got
a couple of uh not huge books but some
really cool ones I wanted to add to my
collection for a while so happy I found
them at a great price let's go home and
show you guys what I found
so there you go guys that was the
clipcon Big Show down in Connecticut uh
the clipcon is a show that happens on
the last Sunday of every single month
but a couple of times a year they have
one Big Show with lots of vendors and
that was the show that you saw the
footage of now this was actually the
second show that I went to in the same
day the first one I went to I showed in
a previous video that was the western
Mass comic book show and in that last
video I said even though both of these
shows were happening on the same day and
I'd be going to both I wanted to give
each of them their own just do give them
each their own video a chance to shine
in the spotlight that I get to talk
about them on my channel and I did not
do a good job at that no see what
happened was I spent too much time at
the western Mass comic book show hanging
out talking with friends I actually met
a friend I hadn't seen in years I got to
talking far too long went out for lunch
uh and then I had an hour and a half
drive down to clifcon in traffic and
before I knew it it was pretty much an
hour till close at cliffcon not only
that guys it was Memorial Day weekend
and I had a ton of people literally at
my house waiting for me to have a
cookout I was getting like Angry texts
from my wife so long story short I
wanted to give you guys a really good
idea of what the show was about by lots
of books I just didn't have enough time
and I feel really bad about it the good
thing is that clifcon happens at the end
of every single month and I try to go
every single month so I have plenty of
opportunities to make a lot more videos
about clifcon but this specific show you
guys saw a lot more vendors lots of
incredible books I got to meet Gary
another fellow YouTuber he's been
contacting me on social media he always
has amazing books he picks up so he
really wanted to show me some of the
stuff he got as well as the stuff that
he put like on layaway uh when all was
said and done in the short amount of
time I had I only ended up with four
comic books I was actually kicking
myself when I left because I had several
other books I meant to go back and get
luckily I had the contact information
from those vendors and I called them and
said hey can you put those books aside
for me for the next time you guys have
clifcon so that's exactly what I did so
I only have four books to show you guys
but trust me I will be going to the next
clipcon and I have a couple books
already set aside so with all that being
said guys uh if you like this sort of
stuff go down hit that like button leave
me a comment feel free to subscribe if
you haven't already follow me on
Instagram under lunch money Comics IG
let me show you what I picked up in my
brief time at the big clifcon so the
first comic book I want to show you guys
is an X-Men book that isn't actually for
me while I was down there I bumped into
a friend of mine named Josh another
friend named Josh there's lots of Josh's
and Mike's and Jeff's in this hobby I
just feel like that's the case at least
here in New England uh so another Josh
that I know um he's from Vermont I see
him all the time up in like the
Greenfield Massachusetts area he likes
to go to his and her comics as well bump
into him on all the shows while he
happened to get a table at the big
clifcon under his newly branded uh
business Sasquatch Comics love that
really cool little Sasquatch there on
the card
um and he had a box of X-Men books he
knows I love X-Men books so he pointed
me in the direction of those and I found
this very cool book this is the The
Uncanny X-Men number 268 from 1990 art
of course by Jim Lee and the
significance here is that this tells the
backstory of Wolverine meeting Captain
America in World War II not only that
but they were also Associates with black
widow all of them fought side by side
the book kind of goes back and forth
between Modern Times And flashbacks to
World War II so it's really cool in that
regard and it's got the Jim Lee art and
Jim Lee of course was the Superstar of
the X-Men uh Series in the 90s so it's a
cool because it's you know a Jim Lee uh
comic book and has a really cool
backstory now normally this book can go
for quite a bit but this one here was
only five dollars and the reason is five
dollars is because of the condition I
don't know if you guys can see but
there's a lot of spine breaks on it so I
thought it was actually a pretty good
deal for five dollars I mentioned
however that it isn't for me I actually
already owned this book in a much higher
grade I got this because I'm actually
doing a trade uh with a friend in
Germany this was a book that was on his
list so because I saw it uh in a kind of
a lower grade a cheaper uh price I was
willing to pick it up for my friend over
in Germany so that's why I got it it's
always a cool book to pick up guys keep
your eyes open for it but while I was
looking at these X-Men books Josh again
A friend of mine uh told me he had
something for me he wanted to give me a
book for my next giveaway uh and he gave
me a great one he knew I would
absolutely love it is this this is X-Men
Adventures number one from 1992 and this
is the first comic book based on the
cartoon series that all of us knew and
loved in the early 90s I absolutely love
that cartoon guys it was very formative
for me I was already an X-Men fan when
that cartoon came out and just drove it
home especially like people like Gambit
a character that just exploded uh into
popularity when that show came out so
this is a very cool comic book because
it's based on that iteration of the
cartoon
um and yeah it's gonna go to one of my
lucky viewers at some point not sure
what my next giveaway is going to be but
rest assured this is going to be one of
them so thank you very much Josh for
donating this to the channel and for the
rest of you keep your eyes peeled you
may see this book again
so this next comic book is also based
off of a cartoon I loved as a kid this
time we're going back to the 80s with
this one this of course is Voltron
number one from 1985 and this is the
first U.S appearance of the character
Voltron in comic books I've talked about
Voltron on my channel in the past you
see I have a figure of them back there
on the Shelf um I loved Voltron um you
know Voltron was his Americanized or
English name uh when they adapted it
from the Japanese cartoon originally he
was called go lion but I love Voltron as
a kid I thought he was super cool and
I'm always trying to collect like these
comic book adaptations on my favorite
80s cartoons toys and video games so
I've been on the lookout for this book
for a long time I found it in the wild
before but it's always uh you know in
poor condition it is a white cover tends
to show stains and it's always a little
overpriced but today was the day I found
one uh in a pretty good condition at an
excellent excellent price
um the original price on this was thirty
dollars the guy got it from was actually
selling his dad's old collection and he
was willing to come down quite a bit on
all of his prices and I didn't really uh
broker with him too much he came right
down and said uh 20 bucks I could have
this book and I thought that was a
fantastic deal for this book it does
have some condition issues it is a
little stained the white cover and
there's also lots of like little
markings all over it but they're not
really stains they actually have some
like Dimension like I could scrape them
off with my fingernail I'm pretty sure I
could clean this book up or I'll have
comic Spa do it I don't think it'd
actually be that hard I think I can make
it present a lot better but still guys
for twenty dollars I thought that was a
fantastic price to finally get this book
and add it to my you know 80s nostalgic
comic book box pretty cool
so this last comic book is kind of a
deep cut
um I've been talking for a while about
how much I love the weird and quirky
strange DC characters well this is a
character that definitely Falls in that
category although I feel like it's a
very underappreciated character I've
been looking for this book for a while
so I was really happy to find it at a
fantastic price of the show and I was
excited to bring it home and talk about
with you guys what book am I talking
about
it's this this is beware the creeper
number one from 1968 uh written by
Dennis O'Neal
um art by Steve ditko uh and this is the
second appearance of the creeper his
first appearance was in showcase number
73 so this is his first appearance in
his own ongoing series also this marks
the first uh writing by Dennis O'Neill
in DC Comics so uh what's up with the
creeper well he's really weird in his
early iterations he was a guy who had
this is crazy for the 60s by the way has
some sort of like nanotechnology in his
body like in his cells that could be
activated with a button like a machine
that would literally change his body he
gets superpowers he'd get like a crazy
green hair yellow skin
um and this weird kind of like sheepskin
uh Cape strange character uh odd and
then over time though they made this
character weirder and creepier instead
of looking more Sinister looking more
like a demon and then eventually they
said there was some Supernatural
component to this not just like a
technological one uh but he's a
character that is definitely tied with
the weird and unusual DC side of things
that I always love and I feel like it's
a character no one ever talks about and
I feel like this is a historically
significant book I mean it's the uh you
know first Dennis O'Neill uh in DC
Comics a long time writer for that comic
label and of course you have some great
Steve ditko Arc
um I've wanted this book for a while
I've seen it in worse shape for a lot
more money the vendor had this on sale
for twenty dollars and again I didn't
really uh like try brokering this or
talking them down I just said hey you
know this is a pretty good deal for 20
and the guy said I'll Solitude for 15. I
think that's a great deal for a silver
age book like this but there you go guys
uh the creeper number one uh first
creeper in its own ongoing series very
cool book especially for 15 I'm really
happy to have picked it up to add to my
collection and very happy to show it to
all of you
so there you go guys a pretty quick
video I feel bad I didn't spend more
time at cliffcon to get more footage but
that's okay because I can just go back
next month and get more footage and buy
more books and the month after that and
the month after that and the month after
that it's great that they have a show on
the last Sunday of every single month I
always look forward to it so head on
down to the comments guys and let me
know which of my pickups you like the
best uh I know I wasn't there very long
but I think I got some pretty cool books
in my limited time there in the meantime
guys I hope you keep hunting for comic
books in strange and unusual places make
sure you support your local comic book
shows and comic book shops thank you all
so very much for watching and I'll see
you guys next time
